It is any day better to stand erect with a broken and bandaged head then to crawl on one's belly, in order to be able to save one's head.
You may never know what results come of your actions, but if you do nothing, there will be no results.
If you don't find God in the next person you meet, it is a waste of time looking for him further.
The world has enough for everyone's need, but not enough for everyone's greed.
What we are doing to the forests of the world is but a mirror reflection of what we are doing to ourselves and to one another.
Love never claims, it ever gives. Love ever suffers, never resents never revenges itself.
It is wrong and immoral to seek to escape the consequences of one's acts.
Moral authority is never retained by any attempt to hold on to it. It comes without seeking and is retained without effort.
What barrier is there that love cannot break?
You yourself as much as anybody in the entire universe deserve love and affection.
Peace is its own reward.
The expert knows more and more about less and less until he knows everything about nothing.
Seek not greater wealth, but simpler pleasure; not higher fortune, but deeper felicity.
What do I think of western civilization?  I think it would be a good idea
A policy is a temporary creed liable to be changed, but while it holds good it has got to be pursued with apostolic zeal.
I will not let anyone walk through my mind  with their dirty feet.
There are many causes I would die for. There is not a single cause I would kill for.
No one can ride on the back of a man unless it is bent.
To forget how to dig the earth and to tend the soil is to forget ourselves.
Hate the sin, love the sinner.
I offer you peace. I offer you love. I offer you friendship. I see your beauty. I hear your need. I feel your feelings.
True morality consists not in following the beaten track, but in finding the true path for ourselves, and fearlessly following it.
True beauty lies in purity of the heart.
A good person will resist an evil system with his whole soul. Disobedience of the laws of an evil state is therefore a duty.
Fear has its use but cowardice has none.
The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated.
The pursuit of truth does not permit violence on one's opponent.
Yes I am, I am also a Muslim, a Christian, a Buddhist, and a Jew.
Violent men have not been known in history to die to a man. They die up to a point.
Always aim at complete harmony of thought and word and deed. Always aim at purifying your thoughts and everything will be well.
When restraint and courtesy are added to strength, the latter becomes irresistible.
Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.
No matter how explicit the pledge, people will turn and twist the text to suit their own purpose
I may be a despicable person, but when Truth speaks through me I am.
In fact, it is more correct to say that Truth is God, than to say that God is Truth.
I object to violence because when it appears to do good, the good is only temporary; the evil it does is permanent.
My religion is based on truth and non-violence. Truth is my God. Non-violence is the means of realising Him.
Nothing once begun should be abandoned, unless it is proved to be morally wrong.
It is my own firm belief that the strength of the soul grows in proportion as you subdue the flesh.
Increase of material comforts, it may be generally laid down, does not in any way whatsoever conduce to moral growth.
Infinite striving to be the best is man's duty; it is its own reward. Everything else is in God's hands.
Sacrifice is joy.
If you want something really important to be done you must not merely satisfy the reason, you must move the heart also.
One needs to be slow to form convictions, but once formed they must be defended against the heaviest odds.
Always believe in your dreams, because if you don't, you'll still have hope.
Truth never damages a cause that is just.
The real seat of taste was not the tongue but the mind
Compassion is a muscle that gets stronger with use.
Wherever you are you will always be in my heart.
You don't know who is important to you until you actually lose them.
It is easier to build a boy than to mend a man.
Truth is one, paths are many.
We should be able to refuse to live if the price of living be the torture of sentient beings.
The earth provides enough to satisfy every person's need, but not every person's greed.
I claim no perfection for my self. But I do claim to be a passionate seeker after Truth, which is but another name for God.
Interdependence is and ought to be as much the ideal of man as self-sufficiency. Man is a social being.
The future depends on what we do in the present.
In a gentle way you can shake the world.
Whenever you are confronted with an opponent. Conquer him with love
Prayer is the key of the morning and the bolt of the evening.
I cannot conceive of a greater loss than the loss of one's self-respect.
A weak man is just by accident. A strong but non-violent man is unjust by accident.
To believe that what has not occurred in history will not occur at all, is to argue disbelief in the dignity of man.
May God give power to every word of mine. In his name I began to write this, and in His name I close it.
For me every ruler is alien that defies public opinion.
A man, whilst he is dreaming, believes in his dream; he is undeceived only when he is awakened from his slumber.
The simplest acts of kindness are by far more powerful then a thousand heads bowing in prayer.
Truth is like a vast tree, which yields more and more fruit, the more you nurture it
Satisfaction lies in the effort, not in the attainment. Full effort is full victory.
A man of character will make himself worthy of any position he is given.
Palestine belongs to the Arabs in the same sense that England belongs to the English or France to the French.
Let us all be brave enough to die the death of a martyr, but let no one lust for martyrdom.
Champions are made from something they have deep inside of them-a desire, a dream, a vision.
There is no way to peace, peace is the only way
Strength doesn't come from physical capacity. It comes from an indomitable will.
A 'No' uttered from the deepest conviction is better than a 'Yes' merely uttered to please, or worse, to avoid trouble.
It is better to be violent, if there is violence in our hearts, than to put on the cloak of nonviolence to cover impotence
A man is but the product of his thoughts. What he thinks, he becomes.
Disease increases in proportion to the increase in the number of doctors in a place.
A language is an exact reflection of the character and growth of its speakers.
Those who know how to think need no teachers.
My life is my message.
Jesus is ideal and wonderful, but you Christians - you are not like him.
Non-violence, which is the quality of the heart, cannot come by an appeal to the brain.
Distinguish between real needs and artificial wants and control the latter.
Strength of numbers is the delight of the timid. The Valiant in spirit glory in fighting alone.
There are people in the world so hungry, that God cannot appear to them except in the form of bread.
Recall the face of the poorest and weakest man you have seen, and ask yourself if this step you contemplate is going to be any use to him.
Speak only if it improves upon the silence.
Where there is love there is life.
Behaviour is the mirror in which we can display our image.
My love simply greater than you always. Your each breath cuts me.
There's more to life than increasing its speed
But for my faith in God, I should have been a raving maniac.
Peace between countries must rest on the solid foundation of love between individuals.
If I had no sense of humor, I would long ago have committed suicide.
The real ornament of woman is her character, her purity.
Action is no less necessary than thought to the instinctive tendencies of the human frame.
Where there is fear there is no religion.
Glory lies in the attempt to reach one's goal and not in reaching it.
Homeopathy cures a larger percentage of cases than any other form of treatment and is beyond doubt safer and more economical.
The law of sacrifice is uniform throughout the world. To be effective it demands the sacrifice of the bravest and the most spotless.
Selfishness is blind.
Faith is not something to grasp, it is a state to grow into.
There is force in the universe, which, if we permit it, will flow through us and produce miraculous results.
Even if you are a minority of one, the Truth is the Truth.
Each night, when I go to sleep, I die. And the next morning, when I wake up, I am reborn.
Though we may know Him by a thousand names, He is one and the same to us all.
There would be nothing to frighten you if you refused to be afraid.
The history of the world is full of men who rose to leadership, by sheer force of self-confidence, bravery and tenacity.
Purity of personal life is the one indispensable condition for building up a sound education.
You can't lead a true life without suffering
Intolerance is itself a form of violence and an obstacle to the growth of a true democratic spirit.
Liberty and democracy become unholy when their hands are dyed red with innocent blood.
A man of truth must also be a man of care.
Everyone holds a piece of the truth.
God sometimes does try to the uttermost those whom he wishes to bless.
The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.
A coward is incapable of exhibiting love; it is the prerogative of the brave.
Love is the strongest force the world possesses and yet it is the humblest imaginable.
A convert's enthusiasm for his new religion is greater than that of a person who is born in it.
If we are to teach real peace in this world, and if we are to carry on a real war against war, we shall have to begin with the children.
An unjust law is itself a species of violence. Arrest for its breach is more so.
A non-violent soldier of freedom will covet nothing for himself, he fights only for the freedom of his country.
There goes my people. I must follow them, for I am their leader.
I regard myself as a soldier, though a soldier of peace.
The essence of all religions is one. Only their approaches are different.
Capital as such is not evil; it is its wrong use that is evil. Capital in some form or other will always be needed.
Unity to be real must survive the severest strain without breaking.
It was not easy to commit suicide as to contemplate it.
I have called her beautiful, because it was her moral beauty that at once attracted me. True beauty after all consists in purity of heart.
Is it not enough to know the evil to shun it? If not, we should be sincere enough to admit that we love evil too well to give it up.
Do not worry in the least about yourself, leave all worry to God,
You can chain me, you can torture me, you can even destroy this body, but you will never imprison my mind.
All humanity is one undivided and indivisible family, and each one of us is responsible for the misdeeds of all others
All true artists, whether they know it or not, create from a place of no-mind, from inner stillness.
It seems to me as clear as daylight that abortion would be a crime.
Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
A nation's culture resides in the hearts and in the soul of its people.
Intolerance is a species of violence and therefore against our creed.
Whatever you do in life will be insignificant, but it's very important that you do it. Because nobody else will.
I like your Christ, I do not like your Christians. Your Christians are so unlike your Christ.
When the fear of jail disappears, repression puts heart into the people.
Non-violence is not a garment to be put on and off at will. Its seat is in the heart, and it must be an inseparable part of our being.
Victory attained by violence is tantamount to a defeat, for it is momentary.
You must not lose faith in humanity. Humanity is an ocean; if a few drops of the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not become dirty.
There is no way to peace, there is only peace.
In doing something, do it with love or never do it at all.
Even a single lamp dispels the deepest darkness.
I would heartily welcome the union of East and West provided it is not based on brute force.
Whatever you do may seem insignificant to you, but it is most important that you do it.
It dawned upon me that fasting could be made as powerful a weapon of indulgence as of restraint
You must be the change you wish to see in the world.
Truth alone will endure, all the rest will be swept away before the tide of time. 
Rights that do not flow from duty well performed are not worth having.
Service without humility is selfishness and egotism.
Nearly everything you do is of no importance, but it is important that you do it.
If you don't ask, you don't get it
Poverty is the worst form of violence.
The moment there is suspicion about a person's motives, everything he does becomes tainted.
Man's nature is not essentially evil. Brute nature has been know to yield to the influence of love. You must never despair of human nature.
The devotee of truth is often obliged to grope in the dark.
But I believe that nonviolence is infinitely superior to violence, forgiveness is more manly than punishment, forgiveness adorns a soldier
Anger and intolerance are the twin enemies of correct understanding.
There are as many different religions as there are individuals.
Man lives freely only by his readiness to die, if need be, at the hands of his brother, never by killing him.
I believe in the fundamental truth of all great religions of the world.
I do not believe myself to be a helpless creature. Only I want to use India's and my strength for better purpose.
Nothing is impossible for pure love.
Every formula of every religion has in this age of reason, to submit to the acid test of reason and universal assent.
Every home is a university and the parents are the teachers.
That service is the noblest which is rendered for its own sake.
The human voice can never reach the distance that is covered by the still small voice of conscience.
It is unwise to be too sure of one's own wisdom. It is healthy to be reminded that the strongest might weaken and the wisest might err.
There are innumerable definitions of God, because His manifestations are innumerable.
I am prepared to die, but there is no cause for which I am prepared to kill.
Anger is the enemy of non-violence and pride is a monster that swallows it up.
Forgive and forget, but never forget to forgive. You may find a happier heart is the key to a happier life.
If I have the belief that I can do it, I shall surely acquire the capacity to do it even if I may not have it at the beginning.
There is a sufficiency in the world for man's need but not for man's greed.
To my mind, the life of a lamb is no less precious than that of a human being.
God has no religion.
Only he can take great resolves who has indomitable faith in God and has fear of God.
There is nothing that wastes the body like worry, and one who has any faith in God should be ashamed to worry about anything whatsoever. 
Live simply so that others may simply live.
Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.
But the fact that I had learnt to be tolerant to other religions did not mean that I had any living faith in God.
To believe in something, and not to live it, is dishonest.
And he who would be friends with God must remain alone, or make the whole world his friend
Each one has to find his peace from within. And peace to be real must be unaffected by outside circumstances.
As long as you derive inner help and comfort from anything, keep it.
it's easy to stand in the crowd but it takes courage to stand alone
Freedom is not worth having if it does not connote freedom to err and even to sin.
To call woman the weaker sex is a libel; it is man's injustice to woman. 
Earth provides enough to satisfy every man's needs, but not every man's greed.
I first learned the concepts of non-violence in my marriage.
They cannot take away our self respect if we do not give it to them.
Non-violence is the article of faith.
If we are to make progress, we must not repeat history but make new history. We must add to inheritance left by our ancestors.
Permanent good can never be the outcome of untruth and violence
The main purpose of life is to live rightly, think rightly, act rightly. The soul must languish when we give all our thought to the body.
It has always been a mystery to me how men can feel themselves honored by the humiliation of their fellow beings.
The difference between what we do and what we are capable of doing would suffice to solve most of the world's problems.
God is, even though the whole world deny him. Truth stands, even if there be no public support. It is self-sustained.
Non-cooperation with evil is as much a duty as is cooperation with good.
Commonsense is the realised sense of proportion.
In judging myself I shall try to be as harsh as truth, as I want others also to be.
There are two days in the year that we can not do anything, yesterday and tomorrow
My imperfections and failures are as much a blessing from God as my successes and my talents and I lay them both at his feet.
Be the change you want to see in the world
A religion that takes no account of practical affairs and does not help to solve them is no religion.
The ideally non-violent state will be an ordered anarchy. That State is the best governed which is governed the least.
Every worthwhile accomplishment, big or little, has its stages of drudgery and triumph: a beginning, a struggle, and a victory.
In matters of conscience, the law of the majority has no place.
Do not crave to know the views of others, nor base your intent thereon. To think independently for yourself is a sign of fearlessness.
Religion which takes no account of practical affairs and does not help to solve them is no religion.
Morality is contraband in war.
One's own religion is after all a matter between oneself and one's Maker and no one else's.
Where love is, there God is also.
world has things which full fill man needs, but not greeds.
The first principal of non-violent action is that of non-cooperation with everything humiliating.
Birth and death are not two different states, but they are different aspects of the same state.
Non-violence requires a double faith, faith in God and also faith in man.
The good man is the friend of all living things.
With my meagre knowledge of my own religion I do not want to belong to any religious body
I reject any religious doctrine that does not appeal to reason and is in conflict with morality.
Let everyone try and find that as a result of daily prayer he adds something new to his life, something with which nothing can be compared
My life is dedicated to service of India through the religion of nonviolence which I believed to be the root of Hinduism.
They may torture my body, break my bones, even kill me.  Then they will have my dead body, but not my obedience.
A small body of determined spirits fired by an unquenchable faith in their mission can alter the course of history.
Fearlessness is the first requisite of spirituality. Cowards can never be moral.
It does not require money, to live neat, clean and dignified..
All the religions of the world, while they may differ in other respects, unitedly proclaim that nothing lives in this world but Truth.
Freedom is never dear at any price. It is the breath of life. What would a man not pay for living?
There is no school equal to a decent home and no teacher equal to a virtuous parent.
The deeper the search in the mine of truth the richer the discovery of the gems buried there
Unwearied ceaseless effort is the price that must be paid for turning faith into a rich infallible experience.
Nothing is so aggravating as calmness.
Violent means will give violent freedom. That would be a menace to the world and to India herself.
The cry for peace will be a cry in the wilderness, so long as the spirit of nonviolence does not dominate millions of men and women.
Religion is a matter of the heart. No physical inconvenience can warrant abandonment of one's own religion.
In reality, there are as many religions as there are individuals.
It is simple impertinence for any man, or any body of men, to begin, or to contemplate, reform of the whole world.
Those who say religion has nothing to do with politics do not know what religion is.
Purification being highly infectious, purification of oneself necessarily leads to the purification of one's surroundings.
What is true of the individual will be tomorrow true of the whole nation if individuals will but refuse to lose heart and hope.
I call him religious who understands the suffering of others.
Nobody can hurt me without my permission.
There are no good-byes, where ever you'll be, you'll be in my heart.
Non-violence and truth are inseparable and presuppose one another.
My uniform experience has convinced me that there is no other God than Truth.
The day the power of love overrules the love of power, the world will know peace.
Gentleness, self-sacrifice and generosity are the exclusive possession of no one race or religion.
My effort should never be to undermine another's faith but to make him a better follower of his own faith.
The future depends on what you do today.
The greatness of humanity is not in being human, but in being humane.
Culture of the mind must be subservient to the heart.
It is the quality of our work which will please God and not the quantity.
There is no god higher than truth.
Honest differences are often a healthy sign of progress.
Terrorism and deception are weapons not of the strong, but of the weak.
I suppose leadership at one time meant muscles; but today it means getting along with people.
I look only to the good qualities of men. Not being faultless myself, I won't presume to probe into the faults of others.
When I admire the wonders of a sunset or the beauty of the moon, my soul expands in the worship of the creator.
I shall die, but I will not kill.
Silence becomes cowardice when occasion demands speaking out the whole truth and acting accordingly.
I intend to make a careful study of my own religion and, as far as I can, of other religions as well.
All have not the same capacity. I would allow a man of intellect to earn more, I would not cramp his talent.
First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.
We may have our private opinions but why should they be a bar to the meeting of hearts?
Joy lies in the fight, in the attempt, in the suffering involved, not in the victory itself
The law of love could be best understood and learned through little children.
No culture can live if it attempts to be exclusive.
The more I reflect and look back on the past, the more vividly do I feel my limitations.
Solitude is a catalyst for innovation
It is health that is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver.
We cannot evoke the true spirit of sacrifice and valour, so long as we are not free.
The only tyrant I accept is the still, small voice within me.
Doubt is invariably the result of want or weakness of faith.
Action expresses priorities.
I’m a lover of my own liberty, and so I would do nothing to restrict yours.
Yet even differences prove helpful, where there are tolerance, charity and Truth.
The man is product of his thoughts; he becomes what he thinks
Civilization is the encouragement of differences.
Self-respect knows no considerations.
There is more to life than simply increasing its speed.
Nothing has saddened me so much in life as the hardness of heart of educated people.
If you are left with only one piece of homespun, wear it with dignity
I may have become Christian, were it not for Christians.
The spirit of democracy is not a mechanical thing to be adjusted by abolition of forms. It requires change of heart.
In prayer it is better to have a heart without words than words without a heart.
There is no principle worth the name if it is not wholly good.
We win justice quickest by rendering justice to the other party.
Everyone who wills can hear the inner voice. It is within everyone.
If it had not been for the Christians that I have known I might have been a Christian.
An error does not become truth by reason of multiplied propagation, nor does truth become error because nobody sees it.
I can retain neither respect nor affection for government which has been moving from wrong to wrong in order to defend its immorality
Justice that love gives is a surrender, justice that law gives is a punishment.
My shyness has been in reality my shield and buckler.  It has allowed me to grow.  It has helped me in my discernment of truth.
An ounce of practice is worth more than tons of preaching.
Those who believe religion and politics aren't connected don't understand either.
Nonviolence is the first article of my faith. It is also the last article of my creed.
There are only two ways to live your life: as though nothing is a miracle, or as though everything is a miracle.
I crave to die with my hand at the spinning wheel.
Your tomorrow depends entirely on what you do today.
The path is the goal.
We don't use guns because we don't have guns
I worship God as Truth only. I have not yet found Him, but I am seeking after Him.
Man becomes great exactly in the degree in which he works for the welfare of his fellow-men.
Imitation is the sincerest flattery.
Intolerance betrays want of faith in one's cause.
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
Hatred can be overcome only by love. 
Indolence is a delightful but distressing state; we must be doing something to be happy.
I believe in equality for everyone, except reporters and photographers.
The more efficient a force is, the more silent and the more subtle it is.
Healthy discontent is the prelude to progress.
I believe that a man is the strongest soldier for daring to die unarmed.
Faith... must be enforced by reason... when faith becomes blind it dies.
If co-operation is a duty, I hold that non-co-operation also under certain conditions is equally a duty.
I want freedom for the full expression of my personality.
Morality is the basis of things and truth is the substance of all morality.
Nonviolence is a weapon of the strong.
To give pleasure to a single heart by a single act is better than a thousand heads bowing in prayer.
