I am the king of the buffoons; I am a dangerous person.
Prosperity is the best protector of principle.
Get your facts first, and then you can distort them as much as you please.
A successful book is not made of what is in it, but of what is left out of it.
I like criticism, but it must be my way.
Pity is for the living, envy is for the dead.
Nothing incites to money-crimes like great poverty or great wealth.
Loyalty to the country always. Loyalty to the government when it deserves it.
The secret of getting ahead is getting started.
My mother had a great deal of trouble with me, but I think she enjoyed it.
I don‚Äôt like to commit myself about heaven and hell- you see, I have friends in both places.
Do the right thing. It will gratify some people and astonish the rest.
Envy ‚Äì the only thing which men will sell both body and soul to get.
The reports of my death have been greatly exaggerated.
Like all the other nations, we worship money and the possessors of it - they being our aristocracy, and we have to have one. 
A man's private thought can never be a lie; what he thinks, is to him the truth, always.
How blind and unreasoning and arbitrary are some of the laws of nature - most of them in fact!
When an audience do not complain, it is a compliment, and when they do it is a compliment, too, if unaccompanied by violence.
A man is accepted into a church for what he believes and he is turned out for what he knows.
A man who carries a cat by the tail learns something he can learn in no other way.
The rule is perfect: in all matters of opinion, our adversaries are insane.
Truth is stranger than fiction, but it is because Fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities. Truth isn't.
The man is probably dead drunk but that doesn't lessen your heart ache.
Wit is the sudden marriage of ideas which, before their union, were not perceived to have any relation.
Total abstinence is so excellent a thing that it cannot be carried to too great an extent.
You can find in a text whatever you bring, if you will stand between it and the mirror of your imagination.
But we are all that way: when we know a thing we have only scorn for other people who don't happen to know it.
Doesn't make any difference who we are or what we are, there's always somebody to look down on.
We are all erring creatures, and mainly idiots, but God made us so and it is dangerous to criticize.
It takes your enemy and your friend, working together, to hurt you: the one to slander you, and the other to get the news to you.
Education consists mainly of what we have unlearned. 
God's noblest work? Man. Who found it out? Man.
For a forgotten fact is news when it comes again.
Of all the hard things to bear, to be cut by your neighbors and left in contemptuous solitude is maybe the hardest.
Some men deserve compliments, but the only one that is welcome to a modest man is the one that is undeserved.
It's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog.
Let us swear while we may, for in Heaven it will not be allowed.
Conservatism is the blind and fear-filled worship of dead radicals.
In the first place God made idiots. This was for practice. Then He made school boards.
I didn't attend the funeral, but I sent a nice letter saying I approved of it. 
Under certain circumstances, profanity provides a relief denied even to prayer.
Do right and you will be conspicuous.
Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear, not absence of fear.
Now and then we had a hope that if we lived and were good, God would permit us to be pirates. 
There are no common people except in the highest spheres of society.
There is a charm about the forbidden that makes it unspeakably desirable.
We do not deal much in fact when we are contemplating ourselves.
Blasphemy? No, it is not blasphemy. If God is as vast as that, he is above blasphemy; if He is as little as that, He is beneath it.
The human race is a race of cowards; and I am not only marching in that procession but carrying a banner.
The lowest intellect, like the highest, possesses a skill of some kind and takes a keen pleasure in testing it, proving it, perfecting it.
It may have happened, it may not have happened but it could have happened.
Of all the animals, man is the only one that is cruel. He is the only one that inflicts pain for the pleasure of doing it.
Do not put off until tomorrow what can be put off till day-after-tomorrow just as well.
When you fish for love, bait with your heart, not your brain.
No matter how healthy a man's morals may be when he enters the White House, he comes out again with a pot-marked soul.
It is curious - the space-annihilating power of thought.
Don't let schooling interfere with your education.
There are many scapegoats for our sins, but the most popular one is Providence.
There is no sadder sight than a young pessimist, except an old optimist.
The calamity that comes is never the one we had prepared ourselves for.
Few things are harder to put up with than the annoyance of a good example. 
If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous, he will not bite you. This is the principal difference between a dog and a man.
Writing is easy. All you have to do is cross out the wrong words.
Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.
The difference between the right word and the almost right word is the difference between lighting and a lightning bug.
A sound heart is a surer guide than an ill-trained conscience.
Words are only painted fire; a look is the fire itself. 
Give every day the chance to become the most beautiful day of your life.
Troubles are only mental; it is the mind that manufactures them, and the mind can gorge them, banish them, abolish them.
Man seems to be a rickety poor sort of a thing, any way you take him; a kind of British Museum of infirmities and inferiorities. 
You've got to admire men that deal in ideas of that size and can tote them around without crutches.
It is no use to keep private information which you can't show off.
It is better to take what does not belong to you than to let it lie around neglected. 
He laughs best who laughs least.
Continuous improvement is better than delayed perfection.
If voting made any difference they wouldn't let us do it.
Life would be infinitely happier if we could only be born at the age of eighty and gradually approach eighteen.
Let us live so that when we come to die, even the undertaker will be sorry.
Familiarity breeds contempt - and children.
Kindness is the language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.
Suppose you were an idiot and suppose you were a member of congress; but I repeat myself.
A baby is an inestimable blessing and bother.
Unassailable certainty is the thing that gives a newspaper the firmest and most valuable reputation. 
I'd rather have a sound judgment than a talent.
We admire them, we envy them, for great qualities which we ourselves lack. Hero worship consists in just that.
It is human to like to be praised; one can even notice it in the French.
I have never let my schooling interfere with my education. 
From the beginning of my sojourn in this world there was a persistent vacancy in me where the industry ought to be.
If you should rear a duck in the heart of the Sahara, no doubt it would swim if you brought it to the Nile.
All men know that few things that are done from necessity have much fascination about them.
Honor knows no statute of limitations.
I like the truth sometimes, but I don't care enough for it to hanker after it.
By trying we can easily learn to endure adversity - another man's I mean.
I am glad the old masters are all dead, and I only wish they had died sooner.
We're nothing but a ragbag of disappeared ancestors.
The most outrageous lies that can be invented will find believers if a man only tells them with all his might.
All good things arrive unto them that wait - and don't die in the meantime.
Civilization is the limitless multiplication of unnecessary necessities.
A man cannot be comfortable without his own approval. 
Religion was invented when the first con man met the first fool.
I have always felt friendly toward Satan. Of course that is ancestral; it must be in the blood, for I could not have originated it.
One should be gentle with the ignorant, for they are the chosen of God.
Never argue with a fool, onlookers may not be able to tell the difference.
Never tell the truth to people who are not worthy of it..
No man is straitly honest to any but himself and God.
There are several good protections against temptation, but the surest is cowardice. 
Worrying is like paying a debt you don't owe.
We recognize that there are no trivial occurrences in life if we get the right focus on them.
If all men were rich, all men would be poor.
There has never been an intelligent person of the age of sixty who would consent to live his life over again. His or anyone else's.
Never pick a fight with people who buy ink by the barrel.
Preachers are always pleasant company when they are off duty.
It's not what you don't know that kills you, it's what you know for sure that ain't true.
Laws control the lesser man. Right conduct controls the greater.
Forgiveness is the fragrance that the violet sheds on the heel that has crushed it.
Let us not be too particular; it is better to have old secondhand diamonds than none at all.
The minute we get reconciled to a person, how willing we are to throw aside little needless punctilios and pronounce his name right.
The very ink with which all history is written is merely fluid prejudice.
You can straighten a worm, but the crook is in him and only waiting.
Good friends, good books and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life.
Before I had chance in another war, the desire to kill people to whom I had not been introduced had passed away.
Honesty: the best of all the lost arts.
True irreverence is disrespect for another man's god.
I was getting boiled to death in my own bile.
Golf is a good walk spoiled.
They do say that when a man starts down hill everybody is ready to help him with a kick, and I suppose it is so.
Grief can take care of itself, but to get the full value of a joy you must have somebody to divide it with.
Wrinkles should merely indicate where smiles have been.
The heart is the real fountain of youth.
I can live for two months on a good compliment.
You can't reason with your heart; it has its own laws, and thumps about things which the intellect scorns.
In literature imitations do not imitate.
Indeed, none but the Deity can tell what is good luck and what is bad before the returns are all in.
All generalizations are false, including this one.
Seventy is old enough. After that there is too much risk.
Against a diseased imagination demonstration goes for nothing.
Don't wake up a woman in love. Let her dream, so that she does not weep when she returns to her bitter reality.
Great books are weighed and measured by their style and matter and not by the trimmings and shadings of their grammer.
It is from experiences such as mine that we get our education of life. We string them into jewels or into tinware, as we may choose.
Training is everything. The peach was once a bitter almond; cauliflower is nothing but cabbage with a college education.
Wit, by itself, is of little account. It becomes of moment only when grounded on wisdom.
Do the thing you fear most and the death of fear is certain.
I never saw an author who was aware that there is any dimensional difference between a fact and a surmise.
Many a small thing has been made large by the right kind of advertising.
It is better to keep your mouth closed and let people think you are a fool than to open it and remove all doubt.
My land, the power of training! Of influence! Of education! It can bring a body up to believe anything.
It is at our mother's knee that we acquire our noblest and truest and highest ideals, but there is seldom any money in them.
There have been innumerable Temporary Seekers after the Truth - have you ever heard of a permanent one?
We write frankly and fearlessly but then we 'modify' before we print.
Christianity will doubtless still survive in the earth ten centuries hence - stuffed and in a museum.
I must have a prodigious quantity of mind; it takes me as much as a week sometimes to make it up.
Work consists of whatever a body is obliged to do. Play consists of whatever a body is not obliged to do.
There is nothing so annoying as having two people talking when you're busy interrupting.
Some instinct tells me that eternal vigilance is the price of supremacy.
Sufficient unto the day is one baby. As long as you are in your right mind don't you ever pray for twins. 
Oh, never mind Charley Warner, he would interrupt the raising of Lazarus.
Every person is a book, each year a chapter.
Time cools, time clarifies; no mood can be maintained quite unaltered through the course of hours.
Facts are stubborn things, but statistics are more pliable.
That is the way we are made: we don't reason, where we feel; we just feel.
You can't reach old age by another man's road. My habits protect my life but they would assassinate you.
No one is willing to acknowledge a fault in himself when a more agreeable motive can be found for the estrangement of his acquaintances.
Honesty is the best policy - when there is money in it.
There are times when one would like to hang the whole human race, and finish the farce.
I could have become a soldier if I had waited; I knew more about retreating than the man who invented retreating.
It is a talent by itself to pay compliments gracefully and have them ring true. It's an art by itself.
It is no harm to be an ass, if one is content to bray and not kick.
Loyalty to petrified opinion never yet broke a chain or freed a human soul in this world - and never will.
A man never reaches that dizzy height of wisdom that he can no longer be led by the nose.
Independence is loyalty to one's best self and principles, and this is often disloyalty to the general idols and fetishes.
All of us contain Music & Truth, but most of us can't get it out.
Classic - a book which people praise and don't read.
Forty years ago I was not so good-looking. A looking glass then lasted me three months. Now I can wear it out in two days.
To any foreigner, English is exceedingly difficult. Even the angels speak it with an accent.
If the desire to kill and the opportunity to kill came always together, who would escape hanging?
An author values a compliment even when it comes from a source of doubtful competency.
Just when I thought I was learning how to live, 'twas then I realized I was learning how to die.
Only strangers eat tamarinds - but they only eat them once.
Well enough for old folks to rise early, because they have done so many mean things all their lives they can't sleep anyhow.
I have never taken any exercise except sleeping and resting.
Be respectful to your superiors, if you have any.
The human race consists of the dangerously insane and such as are not.
Lie - an abomination before the Lord and an ever present help in time of trouble.
When we inherit property, it does not occur to us to throw it away, even when we do not want it.
It is the creator of wrong; wrong cannot exist until Moral Sense brings it into being.
Each person is born to one possession which outvalues all his others - his last breath.
The index of a book should always be written by the author, even though the book itself should be the work of another hand.
The only difference between reality and fiction is that fiction needs to be credible.
A sin takes on a new and real terror when there seems a chance that it is going to be found out.
The lottery is a government institution & the poor its best patrons.
I am opposed to millionaires, but it would be dangerous to offer me the position.
It's good sportsmanship to not pick up lost golf balls while they are still rolling. 
No man's life, liberty, or property are safe while the legislature is in session.
I have found out there ain't no surer way to find out whether you like people or hate them than to travel with them.
If we would learn what the human race really is at bottom, we need only observe it in election times.
Work is a necessary evil to be avoided.
The old saw says, 'Let sleeping dogs lie.' Right. Still when there is much at stake it is better to get a newspaper to do it.
It takes me along time to lose my temper, but once lost I could not find it with a dog.
There's a breed of humility which is itself a species of showing off.
If you must be indiscrete, be discrete in your indiscretion.
The proverb says that Providence protects children and idiots. This is really true. I know because I have tested it.
Thunder is good, thunder is impressive; but it is lightning that does the work.
Man is kind enough when he is not excited by religion.
Spirit...has fifty times the strength and staying-power of brawn and muscle.
Noise proves nothing. Often a hen who has merely laid an egg cackles as if she had laid an asteroid.
Human beings seem to be a poor invention. If they are the noblest works of God where is the noblest?
Our opinions do not really blossom into fruition until we have expressed them to someone else.
We all do no end of feeling, and we mistake it for thinking.
The world will not stop and think - it never does, it is not its way; its way is to generalize from a single sample.
Don't go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was here first.
Books are for people who wish they were somewhere else.
Never argue with stupid people, they will drag you down to their level and then beat you with experience.
I have never seen what to me seemed an atom of truth that there is a future life...and yet - I am strongly inclined to expect one.
The compliment that helps us on our way is not the one that is shut up in the mind, but the one that is spoken out.
The more you explain it, the more I don't understand it.
I do not know what we should do without the pulpit. We could better spare the sun - the moon, anyway.
One of the proofs of the immortality of the soul is that myriads have believed it - they also believed the world was flat.
Fame is a vapor, popularity an accident; the only earthly certainty is oblivion.
Supposing is good, but finding out is better.
Habit is habit, and not to be flung out of the window by any man, but coaxed downstairs one step at a time.
It is my belief that nearly any invented quotation, played with confidence, stands a good chance to deceive.
Get a bicycle. You will not regret it. If you live.
Inventors are the creators of the world - after God.
You can't depend on your eyes when your imagination is out of focus.
Prophecy: two bull's eyes out of a possible million.
When a person cannot deceive himself the chances are against his being able to deceive other people. 
It shames the average man to be valued below his own estimate of his worth.
Focus more on your desire than on your doubt, and the dream will take care of itself.
We ought never to do wrong when people are looking.
At 50 a man can be an ass without being an optimist but not an optimist without being an ass.
A half-truth is the most cowardly of lies.
A man with a hump-backed uncle mustn't make fun of another man's cross-eyed aunt.
There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics.
Truth is the most valuable thing we have. Let us economize it.
A country without a patent office and good patent laws was just a crab, and couldn't travel any way but sideways or backwards.
That optimist of yours is always ready to turn hell's backyard into a play-ground.
The most interesting information come from children, for they tell all they know and then stop.
Learning softeneth the heart and breedeth gentleness and charity.
Education: that which reveals to the wise, and conceals from the stupid, the vast limits of their knowledge.
A man's brain is stored powder; it cannot be touched itself off; the fire must come from the outside.
All my life I have been honest -comparatively honest. I could never use money I had not made honestly - I could only lend it.
Necessity is the mother of taking chances. 
You can find in a text whatever you bring, if you will stand between it and the mirror of your imagination.
The gods offer no rewards for intellect. There was never one yet that showed any interest in it.
When we remember we are all mad, the mysteries disappear and life stands explained.
Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence on society.
Human pride is not worthwhile; there is always something lying in wait to take the wind out of it.
A man's character may be learned from the adjectives which he habitually uses in conversation.
Anybody can write the first line of a poem, but is a very difficult task to make the second line rhyme with the first.
Good breeding consists in concealing how much we think of ourselves and how little we think of the other person.
An inglorious peace is better than a dishonorable war.
A great, great deal has been said about the weather, but very little has ever been done.
The offspring of riches: Pride, vanity, ostentation, arrogance, tyranny.
It is better to read the weather forecast before we pray for rain.
An enemy can partly ruin a man, but it takes a good-natured injudicious friend to complete the thing and make it perfect.
Additional problems are the offspring of poor solutions.
Consider well the proportion of things. It is better to be a young June-bug than an old bird of paradise.
If Christ were here there is one thing he would not be - a Christian.
Citizenship should be placed above everything else, even learning.
The worst loneliness is not to be comfortable with yourself.
Necessity knows no law.
Principles have no real force except when one is well-fed. 
Prosperity is the surest breeder of insolence I know.
To succeed in life, you need two things: ignorance and confidence.
I like a good story well told. That is the reason I am sometimes forced to tell them myself.
When people do not respect us we are sharply offended; yet deep down in his private heart no man much respects himself.
Piloting on the Mississippi River was not work to me; it was play - delightful play, vigorous play, adventurous play - and I loved it. 
The radical invents the views. When he has worn them out the conservative adopts them.
No man has a wholly undiseased mind; in one way or another all men are mad.
Hunger is the handmaid of genius.
A man is never more truthful than when he acknowledges himself a liar.
How lovely is death; and how niggardly it is doled out.
It is better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to open one's mouth and remove all doubt.
I said there was but one solitary thing about the past worth remembering and that was the fact that it is past - can't be restored.
In all lies there is wheat among the chaff.
What is human life? The first third a good time; the rest remembering about it.
Anger is an acid that can do more harm to the vessel in which it is stored than to anything on which it is poured.
Man never creates, he only recombines the lines and colors of his own existence.
Censorship is telling a man he can't have a steak just because a baby can't chew it.
When you cannot get a compliment any other way pay yourself one.
In his private heart no man respects himself.
The truth is, a person's memory has no more sense that his conscience, and no appreciation whatever of values and proportions.
Perseverance is a principle that should be commendable in those who have judgment to govern it.
There is a charm about the forbidden that makes it unspeakably desirable.
The unspoken word is capital. We can invest it or we can squander it.
If the world comes to an end, I want to be in Cincinnati. Everything comes there ten years later. 
I don't know of a single foreign product that enters this country untaxed, except the answer to prayer.
One gets large impressions in boyhood, sometimes, which he has to fight against all his life.
In discarding the monkey and substituting man, our Father in Heaven did the monkey an undeserved injustice.
I was young and foolish then; now I am old and foolisher.
Damn these human beings; if I had invented them I would go hide my head in a bag.
He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever.
Humor is mankind's greatest blessing.
The man who is ostentatious of his modesty is twin to the statue that wears a fig leaf.
Martyrdom covers a multitude of sins.
Good citizenship would teach accuracy of thinking and accuracy of statement.
Everyone is a moon, and has a dark side which he never shows to anybody.
Senator: a person who makes laws in Washington when not doing time.
Eat a live frog first thing in the morning and nothing worse will happen to you the rest of the day.
Humorists of the 'mere' sort cannot survive. Humor is only a fragrance, a decoration.
Every man is wholly honest to himself and to God, but not to any one else.
It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for sure that just ain't so.
Just because you're taught that something's right and everyone believes it's right, it don't make it right.
Nobody deserves to be helped who don't try to help himself, and 'faith without works' is a risky doctrine.
Let us endeavor so to live that when we come to die even the undertaker will be sorry.
Honest poverty and a conscience torpid through virtuous inaction are more to me than corner lots and praise.
Indecency, vulgarity, obscenity -these are strictly confined to man; he invented them. Among the higher animals there is no trace of them.
Why not go out on a limb? That's where the fruit is.
How unfortunate and how narrowing a thing it is for a man to have wealth who makes a god of it instead of a servant.
Everybody's private motto: It's better to be popular than right.
None but an ass pays a compliment and asks a favor at the same time. There are many asses.
Compliments make me vain: and when I am vain, I am insolent & overbearing. 
Be wise as a serpent and wary as a dove!
Honest men are few when it comes to themselves.
In the first place God made idiots. This was for practice. Then he made proof-readers.
Human nature is the same everywhere; it deifies success, it has nothing but scorn for defeat.
Nothing is so ignorant as a man's left hand, except a lady's watch.
The man who is a pessimist before 48 knows too much; if he is an optimist after it, he knows too little. 
It is a solemn thought: dead, the noblest man's meat is inferior to pork.
The political and commercial morals of the United States are not merely food for laughter, they are an entire banquet.
High and fine literature is wine, and mine is only water; but everybody likes water.
I once sent a dozen of my friends a telegram saying 'flee at once - all is discovered.' They all left town immediately.
To promise not to do a thing is the surest way in the world to make a body want to go and do that very thing.
Any emotion, if it is sincere, is involuntary. 
There are some few people I respect and admire, but I don't think much of the species.
It is human nature that even the most conscienceless thieves do not like to be pilloried in the Rogues' Gallery.
Do right for your own sake and be happy in knowing that your neighbor will certainly share in the benefits resulting.
All dentists talk while they work. They have inherited this from their professional ancestors, the barbers.
Geological time is not money.
There are two times in a man's life when he should not speculate: when he can't afford it, and when he can.
You ought never to 'sass' old people - unless they 'sass' you first.
The Moral Sense teaches us what is right, and how to avoid it - when unpopular.
When I was younger I could remember anything, whether it happened or not.
Public shows of honor are pleasant, but private ones are pleasanter, because they are above suspicion.
Hunger is pride's master.
All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence; then success is sure.
Always dress a fact in tights, never in an ulster.
The older I get, the more clearly I remember things that never happened.
Be virtuous and you will be eccentric.
Man is the only animal that blushes. Or needs to.
It's easy to make friends, but hard to get rid of them.
Let us make a special effort to stop communicating with each other, so we can have some conversation.
If you don't read the newspaper, you're uninformed. If you read the newspaper, you're mis-informed.
The secret to getting ahead is getting started.
The right word may be effective, but no word was ever as effective as a rightly timed pause. 
The trouble ain't that there is too many fools, but that the lightning ain't distributed right.
There isn't any way to libel the human race.
Zeal and sincerity can carry a new religion further than any other missionary except fire and sword. 
It is very wearing to be good.
For all the talk you hear about knowledge being such a wonderful thing, instinct is worth forty of it for real unerringness.
A crime persevered in a thousand centuries ceases to be a crime, and becomes a virtue.
Let us be thankful for the fools; but for them the rest of us could not succeed.
Really, what we want now, is not laws against crime, but a law against insanity. That is where the true evil lies.
Everything has its limit - iron ore cannot be educated into gold.
Man was made at the end of the week's work, when God was tired.
One can enjoy a rainbow without necessarily forgetting the forces that made it.
His ignorance covered the whole earth like a blanket, and there was hardly a hole in it anywhere.
Comparison is the death of joy.
It is a wise child that knows its own father, and an unusual one that unreservedly approves of him.
Thousands of geniuses live and die undiscovered - either by themselves or by others.
When one reads Bibles, one is less surprised at what the Deity knows than at what He doesn't know.
Let me make the superstitions of a nation and I care not who makes its laws or its songs either.
It is a mistake that there is no bath that will cure people's manners, but drowning would help.
I have been on the verge of being an angel all my life, but it's never happened yet.
Irreverence is another person's disrespect to your god; there isn't any word that tells what your disrespect to his god is.
I wish I could make him understand that a loving good heart is riches enough, and that without it intellect is poverty.
There's a good spot tucked away somewhere in everybody. You'll be a long time finding it, sometimes.
Concerning the difference between man and the jackass: some observers hold that there isn't any. But this wrongs the jackass.
Life is at best a dream and at worst a nightmare from which you cannot escape.
Choosing not to read is like closing an open door to paradise.
It was enough to make a body ashamed of the human race.
Be careful about reading health books. You might die of a misprint.
The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.
Sometimes I wonder whether the world is being run by smart people who are putting us on or by imbeciles who really mean it.
Whereas principle is a great and noble protection against showy and degrading vanities and vices, poverty is worth six of it.
To create man was a quaint and original idea, but to add the sheep was tautology.
I was seldom able to see an opportunity until it had ceased to be one.
Homely truth is unpalatable.
Never be haughty to the humble, never be humble to the haughty.
You can't pray a lie - I found that out.
Humor is tragedy plus time.
There are two times in a man's life when he should not speculate: when he can't afford it and when he can.
How empty is theory in the presence of fact!
A human being has a natural desire to have more of a good thing than he needs.
So it is not nakedness that gives the sense of immodesty, the modifying the nakedness is what does it.
We take a natural interest in novelties, but it is against nature to take an interest in familiar things.
The best way to cheer yourself up is to try to cheer somebody else up.
One is apt to overestimate beauty when it is rare.
The old saw says - 'let a sleeping dog lie.' Experience knows better; experience says, If you want to convince do it yourself.
Part of the secret of a success in life is to eat what you like and let the food fight it out inside.
Of course, no man is entirely in his right mind at any time.
On the whole, it is better to deserve honors and not have them than to have them and not deserve them.
When a man loves cats, I am his friend and comrade, without further introduction.
Patriotism is supporting your country all the time, and your government when it deserves it.
I don't give a damn for a man that can only spell a word one way.
For the majority of us, the past is a regret, the future an experiment.
Such is life, and the trail of the serpent is over us all.
To arrive at a just estimate of a renowned man's character one must judge it by the standards of his time, not ours.
A half-educated physician is not valuable. He thinks he can cure everything.
I wonder if God created man because He was disappointed with the monkey.
The more things are forbidden, the more popular they become.
Let us be thankful to Adam our benefactor. He cut us out of the 'blessing' of idleness and won for us the 'curse' of labor.
A good lawyer knows the law; a clever one takes the judge to lunch.
Religion consists in a set of things which the average man thinks he believes, and wishes he was certain.
Fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities. Truth isn't.
Put all your eggs in one basket - and watch that basket!
Always acknowledge a fault frankly. This will throw those in authority off their guard and give you opportunity to commit more.
Evidence...proves that prohibition only drives drunkenness behind doors and into dark places, and does not cure it or even diminish it.
I never did a thing in all my life, virtuous or otherwise that I didn't repent of within twenty-four hours.
Each race determines for itself what indecencies are. Nature knows no indecencies; man invents them.
Sanity and happiness are an impossible combination.
Under our free institutions anybody can poison himself that wants to and will pay the price.
Wisdom teaches us that none but birds should go out early, and that not even birds should do it unless they are out of worms.
Twins amount to a permanent riot; and there ain't any real difference between triplets and a insurrection.
A great and priceless thing is a new interest! How it takes possession of a man! how it clings to him, how it rides him!
The man with a new idea is a Crank until the idea succeeds.
If the horses knew their strength we should not ride anymore.
Better a broken promise than none at all.
Work like you don't need the money. Dance like no one is watching. And love like you've never been hurt.
Write what you know.
Alas, if we but do right under restraint of authoritative observance, where then is the merit?
The ignorant are afraid to betray surprise or admiration...they think it ill manners.
There is nothing more awe-inspiring than a miracle except the credulity that can take it at par.
We have the best government that money can buy.
Of all the creatures that were made, man is the most detestable. 
When you ascend the hill of prosperity, may you not meet a friend.
There is no suffering comparable with that which a private person feels when he is for the first time pilloried in print.
Man - a figment of God's imagination.
India has two million gods, and worships them all. In religion all other countries are paupers; India is the only millionaire.
It was wonderful to find America, but it would have been more wonderful to miss it. 
The secret source of humor is not joy but sorrow; there is no humor in heaven.
The man who doesn't read good books has no advantage over the man who can't read them.
You can't keep a juvenile moral institution alive on two displays of its sash per year.
Loyalty to country ALWAYS. Loyalty to government, when it deserves it.
Let us save tomorrows for work.
Truth is mighty and will prevail. There is nothing the matter with this, except that it ain't so.
It is wiser to find out than suppose.
Irreverence is the champion of liberty and its only sure defense.
No word was ever as effective as a rightly timed pause.
The lack of money is the root of all evil..
Every star, unless it has a family of planets, floats in an immeasurable solitude like a mustard seed in mid-Atlantic.
A good legible label is usually worth, for information, a ton of significant attitude and expression in a historical picture.
Why is it that we rejoice at a birth and grieve at a funeral? It is because we are not the person involved.
It is not in the least likely that any life has ever been lived which was not a failure in the secret judgment of the person who lived it.
I have been through some terrible things in my life, some of which actually happened.
One should never use exclamation points in writing. It is like laughing at your own joke.
It is good to obey all the rules when you're young, so you'll have the strength to break them when you're old.
One learns peoples through the heart, not the eyes or the intellect.
Giving up smoking is the easiest thing in the world. I know because I've done it thousands of times.
Chastity - you can carry it too far.
The thug is aware that loudness convinces sixty persons where reasoning convinces but one.
When one's character begins to fall under suspicion and disfavor, how swift, then, is the work of disintegration and destruction.
There's one way to find out if a man is honest: ask him; if he says yes, you know he's crooked.
An American girl would rather marry a title than an angel.
I know better than to get tight oftener than once in 3 months. It sets a man back in the esteem of people whose opinions are worth having.
No real estate is permanently valuable but the grave.
If everyone was satisfied with himself, there would be no heroes.
Vote: the only commodity that is peddleable without a license.
There is nothing that saps one's confidence as the knowing how to do a thing.
He had only one vanity, he thought he could give advice better than any other person.
My books are like water; those of the great geniuses are wine. Fortunately, everybody drinks water.
If man had created man he would be ashamed of his performance.
The happy phrasing of a compliment is one of the rarest of human gifts and the happy delivery of it another.
Manifestly, dying is nothing to a really great and brave man.
It is a blessed thing to have an imagination that can always make you satisfied, no matter how you are fixed.
If all the fools in this world should die, lordly God how lonely I should be.
Only kings, presidents, editors, and people with tapeworms have the right to use the editorial ‘we.'
Few of us can stand prosperity. Another man's I mean.
History doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme.
The first thing a missionary teaches the savage is indecency.
The heart has no use for the artifices of training or education or dramatic invention when it has a tale to tell.
No man has an appreciation so various that his judgment is good upon all varieties of literary work.
We may not doubt that society in heaven consists mainly of undesirable persons.
When angry count four; when very angry, swear.
Lawyers are like other people - fools on the average; but it is easier for an ass to succeed in that trade than any other.
It is a time-saving, profanity-breeding, useful invention, and in America to be found in all homes except parsonages.
That is just the way with some people. They get down on a thing when they don't know nothing about it.
I am not the editor of a newspaper and shall always try to do right and be good so that God will not make me one.
It's easier to fool people than to convince them that they have been fooled.
I was born modest; not all over, but in spots.
I don't want no better book than what your face is.
I must have a prodigious amount of mind; it takes me as much as a week, sometimes, to make it up!
Adam and Eve had many advantages, but the principle one was that they escaped teething.
Obscurity and a competence. That is the life that is best worth living.
When the human race has once acquired a superstition nothing short of death is ever likely to remove it.
There is no humor in heaven.
Oh Death where is thy sting! It has none. But life has.
A miss is as good as a mile, we all know - but it is questionable whether a miss is as good as nineteen miles.
Everything human is pathetic. The secret source of Humor itself is not joy but sorrow. There is no humor in heaven.
Heaven goes by favor. If it went by merit, you would stay out and your dog would go in.
The weakest of all weak things is a virtue that has not been tested in the fire.
A man's character may be learned from the adjectives which he habitually uses in conversation.
The altar cloth of one aeon is the doormat of the next.
It was a difference of opinion that led to horseracing.
There are no people who are quite so vulgar as the over-refined.
The dog is a gentleman; I hope to go to his heaven, not man's.
What a fine thing it is to have an intellect, and room enough in the seat of your breeches to hold it.
Just the omission of Jane Austen's books alone would make a fairly good library out of a library that hadn't a book in it.
The course of free love never runs smooth. I suppose we have all tried it.
The public is the only critic whose opinion is worth anything at all. 
Ah, well, I am a great and sublime fool. But then I am God's fool, and all His work must be contemplated with respect.
How stunning are the changes which age makes in a man while he sleeps!
A dozen direct censures are easier to bear than one morganatic compliment.
It is better to deserve honors and not have them than to have them and not deserve them.
Endowed with a stupidity which by the least little stretch would go around the globe four times and tie.
I would much prefer to suffer from the clean incision of an honest lancet than from a sweetened poison.
The poetry is all in the anticipation, for there is none in reality.
But when the time comes that a man has had his dinner, then the true man comes to the surface.
It always happens that when a man seizes upon a neglected and important idea, people inflamed with the same notion crop up all around.
Humor must not professedly teach, and it must not professedly preach, but it must do both if it would live forever.
Work and play are words used to describe the same thing under differing conditions.
A book of mine where a sound heart and a deformed conscience come into collision and conscience suffers defeat.
To believe yourself brave is to be brave; it is the one only essential thing.
Climate is what we expect, weather is what we get.
All I care to know about a man is that he is a human being...he can't be any worse.
Whatever a man's age, he can reduce it several years by putting a bright-colored flower in his button-hole.
I am no lazier now than I was forty years ago, but that is because I reached the limit forty years ago. You can't go beyond possibility.
Too much of anything is bad, but too much good whiskey is barely enough.
You may have noticed that the less I know about a subject the more confidence I have, and the more new light I throw on it.
We adore titles and heredities in our hearts and ridicule them with our mouths. This is our democratic privilege.
The funniest things are the forbidden.
When in doubt, tell the truth.
It is not best to use our morals weekdays, it gets them out of repair for Sunday.
Life is purgatory at all times, & a swindle & a crime - yesterday it was hell.
Apparently there is nothing that cannot happen today.
If you don't know how to pronounce a word, say it loudly. Do not compound mispronunciation with inaudibility.
Is the human race a joke? Was it devised and patched together in a dull time when there was nothing important to do?
What, Sir, would the people of the earth be without woman? They would be scarce, sir, almighty scarce.
There are many humorous things in the world; among them, the white man's notion that he is less savage than the other savages.
There is a great deal of human nature in people.
Buy land, they're not making it anymore.
A banker is a fellow who lends you his umbrella when the sun is shining and wants it back the minute it begins to rain.
But we are all insane, anyway. Note the mountain-climbers.
A person who won't read has no advantage over one who can't read.
If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything.
Nothing so needs reforming as other people's habits. 
There are no grades of vanity, there are only grades of ability in concealing it.
It is curious that physical courage should be so common in the world and moral courage so rare.
The game of billiards has destroyed my naturally sweet disposition.
Plain question and plain answer make the shortest road out of most perplexities.
Etiquette requires us to admire the human race.
I do not like work even when someone else does it.
Against the assault of laughter, nothing can stand.
To succeed in other trades, capacity must be shown; in the law, concealment of it will do.
I have been complimented many times and they always embarrass me; I always feel that they have not said enough. 
Action speaks louder than words but not nearly as often.
Be good and you will be lonesome.
Scientists have odious manners, except when you prop up their theory; then you can borrow money of them.
I have a prodigious quantity of mind; it takes me as much as a week sometimes to make it up.
Of the demonstrably wise there are but two: those who commit suicide, & those who keep their reasoning faculties atrophied with drink.
Yes, even I am dishonest. Not in many ways, but in some. Forty-one, I think it is.
There has been only one Christian. They caught him and crucified him - early.
I was gratified to be able to answer promptly and I did. I said I didn't know.
I have been an author for 20 years and an ass for 55.
Conformity-the natural instinct to passively yield to that vague something recognized as authority.
The universal brotherhood of man is our most precious possession - what there is of it.
Children and fools always speak the truth. The deduction is plain: adults and wise persons never speak it.
It is the prohibition that makes anything precious.
Revenge is wicked, & unchristian & in every way unbecoming, & I am not the man to countenance it or show it any favor. 
I love a drink, but I never encouraged drunkenness by harping on its alleged funny side.
Adam and Noah were ancestors of mine. I never thought much of them. Adam lacked character. He couldn't be trusted with apples.
The spirit of wrath and not the words - is the sin; and the spirit of wrath is cursing. We begin to swear before we can talk.
There is more real pleasure to be gotten out of a malicious act, where your heart is in it, than out of thirty acts of a nobler sort.
If you beseech a blessing upon yourself, beware! lest without intent you invoke a curse upon a neighbor at the same time.
Write without pay until somebody offers to pay.
Nature knows no indecencies; man invents them.
There is no unhappiness like the misery of sighting land (and work) again after a cheerful, careless voyage.
Honor is a harder master than the law. It cannot compromise for less than 100 cents on the dollar and its debts never outlaw.
You should never do anything wicked and lay it on your brother, when it is just as convenient to lay it on some other boy.
We never knew an ignorant person yet but was prejudiced.
The older we grow the greater becomes our wonder at how much ignorance one can contain without bursting one's clothes.
A gentleman is someone who knows how to play the banjo and doesn't.
Don't part with your illusions. When they are gone you may still exist, but you have ceased to live.
Only one thing is impossible for God: To find any sense in any copyright law on the planet.
There are three kinds of people - Commonplace Men, Remarkable Men, and Lunatics.
The man who does not read good books has no advantage over the man who can't read them.
Name the greatest of all inventors. Accidents.
Every little (bit) counts. We are very glad to have it, thin as the slice may be.
The devil's aversion to holy water is a light matter compared with a despot's dread of a newspaper that laughs.
Opinions based upon theory, superstition, and ignorance are not very precious.
That desire which is in us all to better other people's condition by having them think as we think.
Wrong cannot exist until the Moral Sense brings it into being.
We chase phantoms half the days of our lives. It is well if we learn wisdom even then, and save the other half.
It is easier to stay out than get out.
While a polecat is undoubtedly a comely and graceful animal to look at, none but an angel can get any real joy out of its company.
You cannot have a theory without principles. Principles is another name for prejudices.
Civilizations proceed from the heart rather than from the head.
Optimist: day dreamer more elegantly spelled.
The human race consists of the damned and the ought-to-be damned.
How little a thing can make us happy when we feel that we have earned it.
All emotion is involuntary when genuine.
If books are not good company, where shall I find it?
Never let the truth get in the way of a good story.
The secret of success is making your vocation your vacation.
It is noble to teach oneself, but still nobler to teach others - and less trouble.
There comes a time in every rightly-constructed boy's life when he has a raging desire to go somewhere and dig for hidden treasure.
I believe I would rather ride a donkey than any beast in the world. 
In all the ages, three-fourths of the support of the great charities has been conscience money.
Both marriage and death ought to be welcome: the one promises happiness, doubtless the other assures it.
If you send a damned fool to St. Louis, and you don't tell them he's a damned fool, they'll never find out.
Do not offer a compliment and ask a favor at the same time. A compliment that is charged for is not valuable.
Architects cannot teach nature anything.
I am an old man and have known a great many troubles, but most of them never happened.
It is easier to decline 20 invitations than to accept one & then explain to the other nineteen.
Hain't we got all the fools in town on our side? And ain't that a big enough majority in any town?
Yes, it was a fortunate hour that I went netting for lightning-bugs and caught a meteor.
One of the most striking differences between a cat and a lie is that a cat only has nine lives. 
An honest man in politics shines more than he would elsewhere.
I shall not write poetry unless I conceive a spite against the subscribers.
The finest clothing is made of a person's own skin, but, of course, society demands something more than this. 
A distinguished man should be as particular about his last words as he is about his last breath.
We must take things as we find them in this world.
Never learn to do anything: if you don't learn, you'll always find someone else to do it for you.
It is less trouble and more satisfaction to bury two families than to select and equip a home for one.
Nature is the mother of taking chances.
The noblest work of God? Man. Who found it out? Man.
Never allow someone to be your priority while allowing yourself to be their option.
Go to heaven for the climate and hell for the company.
Optimist: person who travels on nothing from nowhere to happiness.
Children have but little charity for one another's defects.
If you hold a cat by the tail, you learn things you cannot learn any other way.
The timid man yearns for full value and demands a tenth. The bold man strikes for double value and compromises on par.
All the modern inconveniences are furnished.
The difference between a Miracle and a Fact is exactly the difference between a mermaid and a seal.
All things change except barbers, the ways of barbers, and the surroundings of barbers. These never change.
Ideally a book would have no order to it, and the reader would have to discover his own.
Only he who has seen better days and lives to see better days again knows their full value.
A nation is only an individual multiplied.
In fact, the more things are forbidden, the more popular they become.
You can't depend on your judgment when your imagination is out of focus.
No narrative that tells the facts of a man's life in the man's own words can be uninteresting.
Man is the Reasoning Animal. Such is the claim. I think it is open to dispute.
Every man is in his own person the whole human race without a detail lacking.
Love is a madness; if thwarted it develops fast.
It ain't those parts of the Bible that I can't understand that bother me, it is the parts that I do understand.
When I reflect upon the number of disagreeable people who I know have gone to a better world, I am moved to lead a different life.
Love is not a product of reasonings and statistics. It just comes - none knows whence - and cannot explain itself.
It's noble to be good, and it's nobler to teach others to be good, and less trouble.
Repartee is something we think of twenty-four hours too late.
Often the surest way to convey misinformation is to tell the strict truth.
Nations do not think, they only feel. They get their feelings at second hand through their temperaments, not their brains.
I have been born more times than anybody except Krishna.
Eloquence is the essential thing in a speech, not information.
Let us consider that we are all insane. It will explain us to each other. It will unriddle many riddles.
Age is an issue of mind over matter. If you don't mind, it doesn't matter.
I would rather have my ignorance than another man's knowledge, because I have so much more of it.
Man will do many things to get himself loved, he will do all things to get himself envied.
Travel is fatal to prejudice, bigotry, and narrow-mindedness.
Is a person's public and private opinion the same? It is thought there have been instances.
Some people get an education without going to college. The rest get it after they get out.
The only way to keep your health is to eat what you don't want, drink what you don't like, and do what you'd rather not.
There isn't a parallel of latitude but thinks it would have been the equator if it had had its rights. 
England's coat of arms should be a lion's head & shoulders welded onto a cur's hindquarters.
To be envied is the human being's chiefest joy.
Really great people make you feel that you, too, can become great.
The human race has one really effective weapon, and that is laughter.
Let us adopt geologic time. Then - time being money - there will be no more poverty.
If you wish to lower yourself in a person's favor, one good way is to tell his story over again, the way you heard it.
Morals consist of political morals, commercial morals, ecclesiastical morals, and morals.
It is a good and gentle religion, but inconvenient.
Be careless in your dress if you will, but keep a tidy soul.
Almost all lies are acts, and speech has no part in them.
It is my custom to keep on talking until I get the audience cowed.
A scientist will never show any kindness for a theory which he did not start himself.
Always do what is right. It will gratify half of mankind and astound the other.
It usually takes me more than three weeks to prepare a good impromptu speech. 
It has never been my way to bother much about things which you can't cure.
An old, cold letter...makes you wonder how you could ever have got into such a rage about nothing.
Such is the human race. Often it does seem such a pity that Noah and his party did not miss the boat.
We like to read about rich people in the newspapers; the papers know it, and they do their best to keep this appetite liberally fed.
God created war so that Americans would learn geography.
Life: we laugh and laugh, then cry and cry, then feebler laugh, then die.
Death is so kind, so benignant, to whom he loves; but he goes by us others & will not look our way.
A person with a new idea is a crank until the idea succeeds.
I am an anti-imperialist. I am opposed to having the eagle put its talons on any other land.
The fact is the human race is not only slow about borrowing valuable ideas - it sometimes persists in not borrowing them at all.
There is something fascinating about science. One gets such wholesale returns of conjecture out of such a trifling investment of fact.
What is the difference between a taxidermist and a tax collector? The taxidermist takes only your skin.
We all live in the protection of certain cowardices which we call our principles.
To be good is noble, but to teach others how to be good is nobler - and less trouble.
People are different. And it is the best way.
Barring that natural expression of villainy which we all have, the man looked honest enough.
A lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes.
Apparently one of the most uncertain things in the world is the funeral of a religion. 
Patriot: the person who can holler the loudest without knowing what he is hollering about.
The most permanent lessons in morals are those which come, not of book teaching, but of experience.
The less there is to justify a traditional custom, the harder it is to get rid of it.
Distance lends enchantment to the view.
When a person is accustomed to one hundred and thirty-eight in the shade, his ideas about cold weather are not valuable.
The elastic heart of youth cannot be compressed into one constrained shape long at a time. 
Taking the pledge will not make bad liquor into good, but it will improve it.
