Alone we can do so little; together we can do so much.
Love is like a beautiful flower which I may not touch, but whose fragrance makes the garden a place of delight just the same.
While they were saying it couldn't be done, it was done.
Walking with a friend in the dark is better than walking alone in the light.
The world is moved along, not only by the mighty shoves of its heroes, but also by the aggregate of tiny pushes of each honest worker.
One cannot consent to creep when one feels an impulse to soar.
Face your deficiencies and acknowledge them; but do not let them master you. Let them teach you patience, sweetness, insight.
To me a lush carpet of pine needles or spongy grass is more welcome than the most luxurious Persian rug.
Your success and happiness lies in you. Resolve to keep happy, and your joy and you shall form an invincible host against difficulties.
Our enjoyment of the great works of literature depends more upon the depth of our sympathy than upon our understanding.
No one has a right to consume happiness without producing it.
I would rather walk with a friend in the dark, than alone in the light.
More than at any other time, when I hold a beloved book in my hand my limitations fall from me, my spirit is free.
I long to accomplish a great and noble task, but it is my chief duty to accomplish small tasks as if they were great and noble.
Life is a succession of lessons which must be lived to be understood.
Good friends walk in when the old ones walk out.
The only lightless dark is the night of ignorance and insensibility.
Do not think of today’s failures, but of the success that may come tomorrow.
There is beauty in everything, even in silence and darkness.
Although the world is full of suffering, it is also full of the overcoming of it.
The hilltop hour would not be half so wonderful if there were no dark valleys to traverse. 
If you can dream it, you can do it.
Self-pity is our worst enemy and if we yield to it, we can never do anything good in the world.
It is a terrible thing to see and have no vision.
Only through experience of trial and suffering can the soul be strengthened, ambition inspired and success achieved.
Toleration is the greatest gift of the mind; it requires the same effort of the brain that it takes to balance oneself on a bicycle.
As the eagle was killed by the arrow winged with his own feather, so the hand of the world is wounded by its own skill.
People do not like to think. If one thinks, one must reach conclusions. Conclusions are not always pleasant.
While they were saying among themselves it cannot be done, it was done.
Under softest touch hides treacherous claws.
The most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched, they must be felt with the heart.
The unselfish effort to bring cheer to others will be the beginning of a happier life for ourselves.
No pessimist ever discovered the secret of the stars or sailed an uncharted land, or opened a new doorway for the human spirit.
To keep our faces toward change, and behave like free spirits in the presence of fate, is strength undefeatable.
As selfishness and complaint pervert the mind, so love with its joy clears and sharpens the vision.
They must be felt within the heart.
Knowledge is love and light and vision.
Literature is my Utopia...No barrier of the senses shuts me out from the sweet, gracious discourse of my book-friends
I rejoice to live in such a splendidly disturbing time!
Once I knew the depth where no hope was, and darkness lay on the face of all things. Then love came and set my soul free.
Life is a daring, bold adventure or it's nothing at all.
In a word, literature is my utopia.
If the blind put their hands in God's, they find their way more surely than those who see but have not faith or purpose. 
My friends have made the story of my life. In a thousand ways they have turned my limitations into beautiful privileges.
The most beautiful world is always entered through imagination.
What is true happiness? It's not attained through self-gratification but through fidelity to a worthy purpose.
One painful duty fulfilled makes the next plainer and easier.
There are no shortcuts to any place worth going
What we have once enjoyed we can never lose. All that we love deeply becomes a part of us.
He makes you feel that if you only had a little more time, you, too, might be an inventor.
Life is an exciting business, and most exciting when it is lived for others.
My share of the work may be limited, but the fact that it is work makes it precious.
Happiness does not come from without, it comes from within.
The mind is as big as the universe.
Everything has its wonders, even darkness and silence, and I learn, whatever state I may be in, therein to be content.
What a blind person needs is not a teacher but another self.
Blindness separates people from things; deafness separates people from people.
The only thing worse than being blind is having sight but no vision.
We would never learn to be brave and patient if there were only joy in the world.
Never crawl when the impulse is to fly
The best and most beautiful things cannot be seen nor touched - but must be felt with the heart.
For one wild, glad moment we snapped the chain that binds us to earth, and joining hands with the winds we felt ourselves divine.
Great poetry, whether written in Greek or in English, needs no other interpreter than a responsive heart.
The heresy of one age becomes the orthodoxy of the next.
College isn't the place to go for ideas.
My fingers are tickled to delight by the soft ripple of a baby's laugh...
Look the world straight in the eye.
True happiness is not attained through self gratification but through fidelity to a worthy purpose
All the world is full of suffering. It is also full of overcoming.
Of all the senses, sight must be the most delightful.
Security is mostly a superstition. It does not exist in nature... Life is either a daring adventure or nothing at all.
We bereaved are not alone. We belong to the largest company in all the world--the company of those who have known suffering.
I thank God for my handicaps. For through them, I have found myself, my work and my God.
It is hard to interest those who have everything in those who have nothing.
Keep your face to the sunshine and you cannot see the shadows. It's what the sunflowers do.
I seldom think about my limitations, and they never make me sad
A bend in the road is not the end of the road…Unless you fail to make the turn.
I do not want the peace which passeth understanding, I want the understanding which bringeth peace.
Resolve to keep happy, and your joy and you shall form an invincible host against difficulties.” 
The most pathetic person in the world is someone who has sight, but has no vision.
The richness of the human experience would lose something of rewarding joy if there were no limitations to overcome.
Life is either a daring adventure or nothing at all.
True, I cannot see the stars scattered like gold dust in the heavens, but stars just as bright shine in my soul.
Blind people are just like seeing people in the dark. The loss of sight does not impair the qualities of mind and heart.
What I am looking for is not out there, it is in me.
So much has been given to me I have not time to ponder over that which has been denied.
So long as you can sweeten another's pain, life is not in vain.
I believe in the immortality of the soul because I have within me immortal longings.
Smell is a potent wizard that transports you across thousands of miles and all the years you have lived.
No matter how dull, or how mean, or how wise a man is, he feels that happiness is his indisputable right.
We can do anything we want to if we stick to it long enough.
Never bend your head. Hold it high. Look the world straight in the eye.
Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement; nothing can be done without hope.
There is no king who has not had a slave among his ancestors, and no slave who has not had a king among his.
Avoiding danger is no safer in the long run than outright exposure. The fearful are caught as often as the bold.
Strike against war, for without you no battles can be fought!
When we do the best that we can, we never know what miracle is wrought in our life, or in the life of another.
It's wonderful to climb the liquid mountains of the sky. Behind me and before me is God and I have no fears.
You don't love someone for their looks, or their clothes, or for their fancy car, but because they sing a song only you can hear.
The highest result of education is tolerance.
One can never consent to creep when one feels an impulse to soar.
A happy life consists not in the absence, but in the mastery of hardships.
So long as the memory of certain beloved friends lives in my heart, I shall say that life is good. 
Science may have found a cure for most evils; but it has found no remedy for the worst of them all - the apathy of human beings.
There is no better way to thank God for your sight than by giving a helping hand to someone in the dark.
I cried because I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet
Out of this sorrowful experience I understand more fully all human strivings, thwarted ambitions, and the infinite capacity of hope.
Faith is the strength by which a shattered world shall emerge into the light.
I believe that God is in me, as the sun is in the color and fragrance of a flower, the Light in my darkness, the Voice in my silence.
True friends never apart maybe in distance but never in heart.
