My father taught me to work; he did not teach me to love it.
Don't worry when you are not recognized but strive to be worthy of recognition
If there is anything that a man can do well, I say let him do it. Give him a chance.
Gentlemen, why do you not laugh? With the fearful strain that is upon me day and night, if I did not laugh, I should die. 
What is to be will be, and no prayers of ours can reverse the decree.
People who like this sort of thing will find this the sort of thing they like.
These men ask for just the same thing, fairness, and fairness only. This, so far as in my power, they, and all others, shall have.
Whenever I hear anyone arguing for slavery, I feel a strong impulse to see it tried on him personally
Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves, and, under a just God cannot retain it.
If you look for the bad in people expecting to find it, you surely will.
In the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years.
Republicans are for both the man and the dollar, but in case of conflict the man before the dollar.
Character is like a tree and reputation like a shadow. The shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing.
Human action can be modified to some extent, but human nature cannot be changed.
War at the best, is terrible, and this war of ours, in its magnitude and in its duration, is one of the most terrible.
People are about as happy as they make up their minds to be.
No man is good enough to govern another man without the other's consent.
You cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today.
But for this book we could not know right from wrong. 
Books serve to show a man that those original thoughts of his aren't very new at all.
Whatever you are, be a good one.
How weak and fruitless must be any word of mine.
You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time.
There are no bad pictures; that's just how your face looks sometimes.
Anybody will do for you, but not for me. I must have somebody.
If you are resolutely determined to make a lawyer of yourself, the thing is more than half done already.
Live a good life. In the end it is not the years in a life, but the life in the years.
The best way to get a bad law repealed is to enforce it strictly.
May the Almighty grant that the cause of truth, justice, and humanity, shall in no wise suffer at my hands.
I hope to stand firm enough to not go backward, and yet not go forward fast enough to wreck the country's cause.
Believing everyone is dangerous, but believing nobody is more dangerous.
Writing is the great invention of the world.
To His care commending you, as I hope in your prayers you will commend me, I bid you an affectionate farewell.
It's not the years in your life, but the life in your years.
As our case is new, we must think and act anew.
The people will save their government, if the government itself will allow them.
Whether you look for the good or look for the bad in a person, you'll find it.
The worst thing you can do for anyone you care about is anything that they can do on their own.
Be with a leader when he is right, stay with him when he is still right, but, leave him when he is wrong.
If I were two-faced, would I be wearing this one? 
In times like the present, men should utter nothing for which they would not willingly be responsible through time and eternity.
How many legs does a dog have if you call the tail a leg? Four. Calling a tail a leg doesn't make it a leg.
I was a little cross. I ask pardon. If I do get up a little temper I have no sufficient time to keep it up.
The things I want to know are in books. My best friend is the man who'll get me a book I haven't read.
My Best Friend is a person who will give me a book I have not read.
He can compress the most words into the smallest ideas of any man I ever met.
Laughter can be used to sooth the mind and get rid of those awful thoughts.
If this country is ever demoralized, it will come from trying to live without work.
Sir, my concern is not whether God is on our side; my greatest concern is to be on God's side, for God is always right.
Commitment is what transforms a promise into reality.
He has a right to criticize, who has a heart to help.
I am not concerned that you have fallen -- I am concerned that you arise.
Always bear in mind that your own resolution to succeed is more important than any one thing.
Every blade of grass is a study; and to produce two, where there was but one, is both a profit and a pleasure.
There is no grievance that is a fit object of redress by mob law.
That some should be rich, shows that others may become rich, and, hence, is just encouragement to industry and enterprise.
I have understood well that the duty of self-preservation rests solely with the American people.
You cannot help men permanently by doing for them what they could & should do for themselves.
I don't know who my grandfather was; I am much more concerned to know what his grandson will be.
Tis better to be silent and be thought a fool, than to speak and remove all doubt.
It is difficult to make a man miserable while he feels worthy of himself and claims kindred to the great God who made him.
Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure.
Be not deceived. Revolutions do not go backward.
It is difficult to make a man miserable while he feels worthy of himself and claims kindred to the great God who made him.
The best way to defeat an enemy is to make him your friend.
People who like this sort of thing will find this the sort of thing they like.
It will not do to investigate the subject of religion too closely, as it is apt to lead to infidelity.
You can tell the greatness of a man by what makes him angry
Truth is generally the best vindication against slander
He who does something at the head of one Regiment, will eclipse him who does nothing at the head of a hundred.
If you think you can you can, if you think you can't you're right!
I will prepare and someday my chance will come.
Let us then turn this government back into the channel in which the framers of the Constitution originally placed it.
Force is all conquering, but it's victories are short lived.
We can complain because rose bushes have thorns, or rejoice because thorn bushes have roses.
It is not best to swap horses while crossing the river.
Public opinion in this country is everything.
If once you forfeit the confidence of your fellow-citizens, you can never regain their respect and esteem.
Most folks are as happy as they make up their minds to be.
Plainly, the central idea of secession is the essence of anarchy.
Knavery and flattery are blood relations.
What is conservatism? Is it not the adherence to the old and tried against the new and untried?
I believe that people should fight for what they believe and only what they believe.
No man has a good enough memory to be a successful liar.
What ever you are, Be a good one.
Every one desires to live long, but no one would be old.
The loss of enemies does not compensate for the loss of friends.
Do I not destroy my enemies when I make them my friends?
Ballots are the rightful and peaceful successors to bullets.
You have to do your own growing no matter how tall your grandfather was.
I hold, that in contemplation of universal law, and of the Constitution, the Union of these States is perpetual.
I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be true. I am not bound to succeed, but I am bound to live up to what light I have.
you can't escape tomorrow's responsibilities by evading it today
I am a success today because I had a friend who believed in me and I didn't have the heart to let him down...
Things may come to those who wait, but only the things left behind by those who hustle. 
You know I dislike slavery; and you fully admit the abstract wrong of it.
If any man tells you he loves America, yet hates labor, he is a liar. If any man tells you he trusts America, yet fears labor, he is a fool.
I have been driven many times to my knees by the overwhelming conviction that I had nowhere else to go.
A tendency to melancholy...let it be observed, is a misfortune, not a fault.
If there is anything that links the human to the divine, it is the courage to stand by a principle when everybody else rejects it.
Thoughtful men must feel that the fate of civilization upon this continent is involved in the issue of our contest. 
You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time.
The highest art is always the most religious, and the greatest artist is always a devout person.
Welcome, or unwelcome, agreeable, or disagreeable, whether this shall be an entire slave nation, is the issue before us.
Stand with anybody that stands right, stand with him while he is right and part with him when he goes wrong.
Avoid popularity if you would have peace.
If you would win a man to your cause, first convince him that you are his sincere friend.
No man is poor who has a Godly mother.
What kills a skunk is the publicity it gives itself.
Good things may come to those who wait, but only the things left by those who hurried. 
It has been my experience that folks who have no vices have very few virtues.
All my life I have tried to pluck a thistle and plant a flower wherever the flower would grow in thought and mind.
Lets have faith that right makes might; and in that faith let us, to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it.
When you have got an elephant by the hind leg, and he is trying to run away, it's best to let him run.
The ballot is stronger than the bullet.
The way for a young man to rise is to improve himself in every way he can, never suspecting that anybody wishes to hinder him.
With the fearful strain that is on me night and day, if I did not laugh I should die.
This is a world of compensations; and he who would be no slave, must consent to have no slave.
I care not much for a man's religion whose dog and cat are not the better for it.
Everybody likes a compliment.
Don't interfere with anything in the Constitution. That must be maintained, for it is the only safeguard of our liberties.
As I would not be a slave, so I would not be a master. This expresses my idea of democracy.
You cannot have the right to do what is wrong!
The way for a young man to rise, is to improve himself every way he can, never suspecting that any body wishes to hinder him.
There can be glory in failure and despair in success.
I do not think much of a man who is not wiser today than he was yesterday.
To the best of my judgment I have labored for, and not against the Union. 
Determine that the thing can and shall be done and then... find the way.
You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong
Folks are usually about as happy as they make their minds up to be
Stand with anyone that is right; stand with him while he is right and part with him when he goes wrong.
The world will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here.
In the end, you aren't judged by the years in your life but the life in your years.
you can have no conflict, without being yourselves the aggressors
Am I not destroying my enemies when I make friends of them?
When I hear a man preach, I like to see him act as if he were fighting bees.
People who have no vices, have very few virtues.
A drop of honey gathers more flies than a gallon of gall
A house divided against itself cannot stand.
You cannot lift the wage earner up by pulling the wage payer down.
I feel a presentment that I shall not outlast the rebellion. When it is over, my work will be done.
You can’t make a weak man strong by making a strong man weak
And now, beware of rashness. Beware of rashness, but with energy, and sleepless vigilance, go forward, and give us victories. 
If I do good, I feel good...If I do bad, I feel bad
Happiness is a state of mind - we are as happy as we make up our minds to be.
It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. 
You dislike the emancipation proclamation; and, perhaps, would have it retracted. You say it is unconstitutional -- I think differently.
Nothing in this world is impossible to a willing heart. 
All that I am or ever hope to be, I owe to my angel mother.
There's no honorable way to kill, no gentle way to destroy. There is nothing good in war. Except its ending. 
How much it expresses! How chastening in the hour of pride! How consoling in the depths of affliction!
Education does not mean teaching people what they do not know. It means teaching them to behave as they do not behave.
In law it is a good policy to never plead what you need not, lest you oblige yourself to prove what you can not.
Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I will spend the first four sharpening the axe.
If we could first know where we are, and whither we are tending, we could then better judge what to do, and how to do it.
Public sentiment is everything. With public sentiment, nothing can fail. Without it, nothing can succeed.
My concern is not whether God is on our side; my greatest concern is to be on God's side, for God is always right.
A farce or comedy is best played; a tragedy is best read at home.
These capitalists generally act harmoniously and in concert, to fleece the people.
The ballot is stronger than the bullet.
I have always found that mercy bears richer fruits than strict justice.
The man does not live who is more devoted to peace than I am. None who would do more to preserve it.
Don’t criticize them; they are just what we would be under similar circumstances.
Towering genius disdains a beaten path. It seeks regions hitherto unexplored.
The time comes upon every public man when it is best for him to keep his lips closed.
Some single mind must be master, else there will be no agreement in anything.
Truth is generally the best vindication against slander.
The leading rule for the lawyer, as for the man of every other calling, is diligence. Leave nothing for to-morrow which can be done today.
The written word may be man's greatest invention. It allows us to converse with the dead, the absent, and the unborn.
We should be too big to take offense and too noble to give it.
The best thing about the future is that it comes only one day at a time.
A friend is one who has the same enemies as you have.
I do not expect the Union to be dissolved -- I do not expect the house to fall -- but I do expect it will cease to be divided.
You cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today.
I may walk slow but I never walk back
Nothing will divert me from my purpose.
Being elected to Congress, though I am very grateful to our friends, for having done it, has not pleased me as much as I expected.
To give victory to the right, not bloody bullets, but peaceful ballots only, are necessary.
I am greatly obliged to you, and to all who have come forward at the call of their country.
Love is the chain whereby to lock a child to its parent.
Investment in knowledge pays the best interest.
The Bible is not my book nor Christianity my profession.
I never had a policy; I have just tried to do my very best each and every day.
It has been my experience that folks who have no vices have very few virtues.
To remain as I am is impossible; I must die or be better, it appears to me. 
Women are the only people I am afraid of who I never thought would hurt me
The people themselves, and not their servants, can safely reverse their own deliberate decisions.
Get books, sit yourself down anywhere, and go to reading them yourself.
Marriage is neither heaven nor hell, it is simply purgatory.
The man who believes he can and the man who believes he can't; they're both right.
Never do anything for anyone who can just as well do it themself 
Life is hard but so very beautiful
Those who look for the bad in people will surely find it.
Let no feeling of discouragement prey upon you, and in the end you are sure to succeed.
Resolve to be honest at all events; and if in your own judgment you cannot be an honest lawyer, resolve to be honest without being a lawyer
Tact is the ability to describe others as they see themselves.
I do the very best I know how - the very best I can; and I mean to keep on doing so until the end.
in times like the present, men should utter nothing for which they would not willingly be responsible through time and eternity.
In great contests each party claims to act in accordance with the will of God. Both may be, and one must be wrong.
If we take habitual drunkards as a class, their heads and hearts will bear an advantageous comparison with those of any other class.
The greatest fine art of the future will be the making of a comfortable living from a small piece of land.
It often requires more courage to dare to do right than to fear to do wrong.
The philosophy of the schoolroom in one generation is the philosophy of government in the next.
You may deceive all the people part of the time, and part of the people all the time, but not all the people all the time.
Some day I shall be President.
You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time
My great concern is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with your failure.
Those who write clearly have readers, those who write obscurely have commentators.
I am nothing, truth is everything.
I like to see a man proud of the place in which he lives. I like to see a man live so that his place will be proud of him.
Important principles may, and must, be inflexible.
I don't like to hear cut and dried sermons. No—when I hear a man preach, I like to see him act as if he were fighting bees.
You cannot build character and courage by taking away people's initiative and independence
Never stir up litigation. A worse man can scarcely be found than one who does this.
I remember my mother's prayers and they have always followed me. They have clung to me all my life.
Our government rests in public opinion. Whoever can change public opinion, can change the government, practically just so much.
I am very little inclined on any occasion to say anything unless I hope to produce some good by it.
I destroy my enemy when I make him my friend
Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to see a man’s character, give him power.
With public sentiment, nothing can fail. Without it, nothing can succeed.
If I am killed, I can die but once; but to live in constant dread of it, is to die over and over again. 
When I do good, I feel good. When I do bad, I feel bad. That's my religion.
Achievement has no color
Too big to cry too young to laugh...
if you want your name to be remembered after your death either do something worth writing or write some thing worth reading
Be sure you put your feet in the right place, then stand firm.
Government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the Earth.
A universal feeling, whether well or ill-founded cannot be safely disregarded.
Well, I wish some of you would tell me the brand of whiskey that Grant drinks. I would like to send a barrel of it to my other generals. 
If slavery is not wrong, nothing is wrong.
The struggle of today, is not altogether for today - it is for a vast future also.
He who molds the public sentiment... makes statutes and decisions possible or impossible to make.
One company can serve some of your needs all of the time, or all of your needs some of the time, but never both.
You may deceive all the people part of the time, and part of the people all the time, but not all the people all the time.
I am naturally anti-slavery. If slavery is not wrong, nothing is wrong.
I don't like that man. I must get to know him better.
To sin by silence when they should protest, makes cowards of men.
One can complain because rosebushes have thorns, or rejoice because thorn bushes have roses.
Judge not, that ye be not judged.
If we magnified our successes as much as we magnify our disappointments, we'd all be much happier
The probability that we may fail in the struggle ought not to deter us from the support of a cause we believe to be just.
It is not the years in your life that count, it is the life in your years
Hypocrite: The man who murdered his parents, and then pleaded for mercy on the grounds that he was an orphan.
America will never be destroyed from the outside. If we falter and lose our freedoms, it will be because we destroyed ourselves.
The true rule for the Military is to seize such property as is needed for Military uses and reasons, and let the rest alone.
At every step we must be true to the main purpose.
If I were to try to read, much less answer, all the attacks made on me, this shop might as well be closed for any other business.
No matter how much cats fight, there always seem to be plenty of kittens.
If friendship is your weakest point then you are the strongest person in the world.
Then came the Black-Hawk war; and I was elected a Captain of Volunteers -- a success which gave me more pleasure than any I have had since.
To believe in the things you can see and touch is no belief at all - but to believe in the unseen is a triumph and a blessing.
Understanding the spirit of our institutions to aim at the elevation of men, I am opposed to whatever tends to degrade them.
Hold on with a bulldog grip, and chew and choke as much as possible.
Tact is the ability to describe others as they see themselves.
All this talk about the dissolution of the Union is humbug -- nothing but folly. We WON'T dissolve the Union, and you SHAN'T.
If this is coffee, please bring me some tea; but if this is tea, please bring me some coffee.
I can make more generals, but horses cost money.
You cannot help people permanently by doing for them, what they could and should do for themselves. 
The hen is the wisest of all the animal creation, because she never cackles until the egg is laid. 
I have never had a feeling politically that did not spring from the sentiments embodied in the Declaration of Independence.
To ease another’s heartache is to forget one’s own.
Every advocate of slavery naturally desires to see blasted, and crushed, the liberty promised the black man by the new constitution.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to speak out and remove all doubt.
Quarrel not at all. No man resolved to make the most of himself can spare time for personal contention.
We trust, sir, that God is on our side. It is more important to know that we are on God's side.
I would like to speak in terms of praise due to the many brave officers and soldiers who have fought in the cause of the war.
Now I confess myself as belonging to that class in the country who contemplate slavery as a moral, social and political evil...
Lets have faith that right makes might; and in that faith let us, to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it.
It is easy to see that, under the sharp discipline of civil war, the nation is beginning a new life. 
You are ambitious, which, within reasonable bounds, does good rather than harm.
I fully appreciate the present peril the country is in, and the weight of responsibility on me.
I have always hated slavery, I think as much as any Abolitionist.
And this, too, shall pass away.
The best thing about the future is that it comes one day at a time.
You can lose everything in life, but not dreams.
Important principles may and must be inflexible.
If you look for the bad in people, you surely will find it.
That some achieve great success, is proof to all that others can achieve it as well.
Military glory--that attractive rainbow, that rises in showers of blood--that serpent's eye, that charms to destroy...
Most of us are just about as happy as we make up our minds to be.
Your own resolution to succeed is more important than any other
If my father's son can become President of these United States, then your father's son can become anything he wishes. 
Common looking people are the best in the world: that is the reason the Lord makes so many of them.
My dream is of a place and a time where America will once again be seen as the last best hope of earth.
