If I had known I was going to live this long, I would have taken better care of myself.
He who hesitates is last.
Any time you got nothing to do - and lots of time to do it - come on up. 
Keep a diary and one day it'll keep you.
I always say, keep a diary and someday it'll keep you.
It takes two to get one in trouble.
Good girls go to heaven, bad girls go everywhere.
His mother should have thrown him away and kept the stork.
One more drink and I'll be under the host.
I go for two kinds of men. The kind with muscles, and the kind without.
Marriage is a fine institution, but I'm not ready for an institution.
I like my clothes to be tight enough to show I'm a woman... but loose enough to show I'm a lady.
Don't keep a man guessing too long - he's sure to find the answer somewhere else.
There are no good girls gone wrong - just bad girls found out. 
You may admire a girl's curves on the first introduction... but the second meeting shows up new angles.
Between two evils, I always pick the one I never tried before.
Why don't you come on up and see me sometime.. when I've got nothin' on but the radio.
Love conquers all things except poverty and toothache.
I made myself platinum, but I was born a dirty blonde.
I'd like to see Paris before I die. Philadelphia will do.
I feel like a million tonight. But one at a time. 
I generally avoid temptation unless I can't resist it.
He's the kind of man a woman would have to marry to get rid of.
I've always had a weakness for foreign affairs. 
Cultivate your curves - they may be dangerous but they won't be avoided.
Women like a man with a past, but they prefer a man with a present
Beulah, Peel me a grape. 
I'll try anything once, twice if I like it, three times to make sure.
If a little is great, and a lot is better, then way too much is just about right!
Love isn't an emotion or an instinct - it's an art.
Why don't you come up sometime and see me? ... Come on up, I'll tell your fortune. 
Women with pasts interest men because they hope history will repeat itself.
I only like two kinds of men, domestic and imported. 
I didn't discover curves; I only uncovered them.
You can do what you want, but saving love doesn't bring any interest.
A man in the house is worth two on the street.
I never said it would be easy, I only said it would be worth it.
A man's kiss is his signature.
It's all right for a perfect stranger to kiss your hand as long as he's perfect.
Opportunity knocks for every man, but you have to give a woman a ring.
One and one is two, and two and two is four, and five will get you ten if you know how to work it.
I enjoyed the courtroom as just another stage but not so amusing as Broadway.
I like restraint, if it doesn't go too far.
I don't like myself, I'm crazy about myself.
A woman in love can't be reasonable - or she probably wouldn't be in love.
Is that a gun in your pocket or are you just happy to see me?
I'm single because I was born that way.
When you got the personality, you don't need the nudity. 
Say what you want about long dresses, but they cover a multitude of shins.
No one can have everything, so you have to try for what you want most.
I'm the kinda girl who works for Paramount by day, and Fox all night 
I've been in more laps than a napkin. 
Don't marry a man to reform him - that's what reform schools are for.
An ounce of performance is worth pounds of promises.
I only have 'yes' men around me. Who needs 'no' men?
I see you're a man with ideals. I better be going before you've still got them.
Ladies who play with fire must remember that smoke gets in their eyes.
Every man I meet wants to protect me. I can't figure out what from.
It ain't no sin if you crack a few laws now and then, just so long as you don't break any.
If I asked for a cup of coffee, someone would search for the double meaning.
I've been things and seen places.
It's better to be looked over, than overlooked.
Don't cry for a man who's left you--the next one may fall for your smile.
When a girl goes wrong, men go right... after her.
You are never too old to become younger!
When women go wrong, men go right after them. 
She's the kind of girl who climbed the ladder of success wrong by wrong.
Goodness had nothing to do with it.
Brains are an asset, if you hide them.
Look your best - who said love is blind?
You ought to get out of those wet clothes... and into a dry martini.
To err is human, but it feels divine.
Those who are easily shocked should be shocked more often.
Men are my hobby, if I ever got married I'd have to give it up.
Too much of a good thing can be wonderful!
It's not the men in your life that matters, it's the life in your men.
He who hesitates is a damned fool.
I used to be Snow White, but I drifted.
Too much of a good thing can be taxing.
Men are all alike - except the one you've met who's different.
A dame that knows the ropes isn't likely to get tied up.
Love thy neighbor - and if he happens to be tall, debonair and devastating, it will be that much easier.
Give a man a free hand and he'll run it all over you. 
A hard man is good to find.
I never loved another person the way I loved myself.
The best way to hold a man is in your arms.
I've been rich and I've been poor... Believe me, rich is better.
Sex is emotion in motion.
You only live once, but if you do it right, once is enough.
All discarded lovers should be given a second chance, but with somebody else.
It's hard to be funny when you have to be clean.
When choosing between two evils, I always like to try the one I've never tried before.
Good sex is like good Bridge... If you don't have a good partner, you'd better have a good hand.
Ten men waiting for me at the door? Send one of them home, I'm tired.
Virtue has its own reward, but no sale at the box office.
A man in love is like a clipped coupon -- it's time to cash in.
A man can be short and dumpy and getting bald but if he has fire, women will like him.
I believe that it's better to be looked over than it is to be overlooked.
The curve is more powerful than the sword.
Anything worth doing is worth doing slowly.
I like a man who's good, but not too good - for the good die young, and I hate a dead one.
Getting married is like trading in the adoration of many for the sarcasm of one.
I'm a woman of very few words, but lots of action.
Save a boyfriend for a rainy day, and another, in case it doesn't rain.
A man has one hundred dollars and you leave him with two dollars, that's subtraction.
Personality is the most important thing to an actress’s success.
So many men... so little time.
I have found men who didn't know how to kiss. I've always found time to teach them.
When in doubt, take a bath...
When I'm good I'm very good, but when I'm bad I'm better.
I speak two languages, Body and English.
I'm no model lady. A model's just an imitation of the real thing.
I wrote the story myself. It's about a girl who lost her reputation and never missed it.
The score never interested me, only the game.
