Thus the expert in battle moves the enemy, and is not moved by him.
Do not press an enemy at bay.
We cannot enter into alliances until we are acquainted with the designs of our neighbors.
Though we have heard of stupid haste in war, cleverness has never been seen associated with long delays.
To know your Enemy, you must become your Enemy.
To perceive victory when it is known to all is not really skilful. Everyone calls victory in battle good, but it is not really good.
Appear weak when you are strong, and strong when you are weak.
He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces.
For them to perceive the advantage of defeating the enemy, they must also have their rewards.
The art of giving orders is not to try to rectify the minor blunders and not to be swayed by petty doubts.
Therefore one hundred victories in one hundred battles is not the most skillful. Seizing the enemy without fighting is the most skillful.
The control of a large force is the same principle as the control of a few men, it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers.
Rouse him, and learn the principle of his activity or inactivity. Force him to reveal himself, so as to find out his vulnerable spots.
All is fair in love and war.
To see victory only when it is within the ken of the common herd is not the acme of excellence.
Again, if the campaign is protracted, the resources of the State will not be equal to the strain.
The wise warrior avoids the battle.
Rewards for good service should not be deferred a single day.
Can you imagine what I would do if I could do all I can?
Whether in an advantageous position or a disadvantageous one, the opposite state should be always present to your mind.
It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on.
If you are far from the enemy, make him believe you are near.
To win one hundred victories in one hundred battles is not the acme of skill.  To subdue the enemy without fighting is the acme of skill.
A skilled commander seeks victory from the situation and does not demand it of his subordinates.
The skillful employer of men will employ the wise man, the brave man, the covetous man, and the stupid man.
Attack is the secret of defense, defense is the planning of an attack.
Hence in the wise leader's plans, considerations of advantage and of disadvantage will be blended together.
When the outlook is bright, bring it before their eyes; but tell them nothing when the situation is gloomy.
Be extremely subtle, even to the point of formlessness. Be extremely mysterious, even to the point of soundlessness.
If fighting is sure to result in victory, then you must fight.
There are not more than five cardinal tastes, yet combinations of them yield more flavors than can ever be tasted.
Therefore a victorious army first wins and then seeks battle; a defeated army first battles and then seeks victory.
And therefore those skilled in war bring the enemy to the field of battle and are not brought there by him.
Even the finest sword plunged into salt water will eventually rust.
Thus, though we have heard of stupid haste in war, cleverness has never been seen associated with long delays.
Subtle and insubstantial, the expert leaves no trace; divinely mysterious, he is inaudible. Thus he is master of his enemy's fate.
All war is based on deception.
Know your enemy and know yourself and you can fight a hundred battles without disaster.
There is no instance of a nation benefitting from prolonged warfare.
By reinforcing every part, he weakens every part.
So the important thing in a military operation is victory, not persistence.
If your opponent is of choleric temperament, seek to irritate him.
If his forces are united, separate them.
When envoys are sent with compliments in their mouths, it is a sign that the enemy wishes for a truce.
Begin by seizing something which your opponent holds dear, then he will be amenable to your will."
Ground on which we can only be saved from destruction by fighting without delay, is desperate ground.
Every battle is won before it's ever fought.
Maneuvering with an army is advantageous; with an undisciplined multitude, most dangerous.
An army may march great distances without distress, if it marches through country where the enemy is not.
To secure ourselves against defeat lies in our own hands, but the opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself.
The expert in battle seeks his victory from strategic advantage and does not demand it from his men.
You have to believe in yourself.
Move swift as the Wind and closely-formed as the Wood. Attack like the Fire and be still as the Mountain.
Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt.
In making tactical dispositions, the highest pitch you can attain is to conceal them.
He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared.
Know yourself and you will win all battles.
If you know the enemy and know yourself you need not fear the results of a hundred battles.
Like the sun and moon, they end but to begin anew; like the four seasons, they pass away to return once more.
If ignorant both of your enemy and yourself, you are certain to be in peril.
A leader leads by example, not by force.
Neither is it the acme of excellence if you fight and conquer and the whole Empire says, Well done.
Conform to the enemy's tactics until a favorable opportunity offers; then come forth and engage in a battle that shall prove decisive.
The King is only fond of words, and cannot translate them into deeds.
Bring war material with you from home, but forage on the enemy... use the conquered foe to augment one's own strength.
All men can see these tactics whereby I conquer, but what none can see is the strategy out of which victory is evolved.
If you are near the enemy, make him believe you are far from him. If you are far from the enemy, make him believe you are now.
If the mind is willing, the flesh could go on and on without many things.
A kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life.
To begin by bluster, but afterwards to take fright at the enemy's numbers, shows a supreme lack of intelligence.
Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected.
You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended.
Know thy self, know thy enemy. A thousand battles, a thousand victories.
If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat.
The whole secret lies in confusing the enemy, so that he cannot fathom our real intent.
One hundred victories in one hundred battles is not the most skillful, subduing the other's military without battle is the most skillful.
If you fight with all your might, there is a chance of life; whereas death is certain if you cling to your corner.
These military devices, leading to victory, must not be divulged beforehand.
Great results, can be achieved with small forces.
It is easy to love your friend, but sometimes the hardest lesson to learn is to love your enemy.
Be where your enemy is not.
When the common soldiers are too strong and their officers too weak, the result is INSUBORDINATION.
Thus, what is of supreme importance in war is to attack the enemy's strategy.
Who wishes to fight must first count the cost.
But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life.
If your opponent is of choleric temper,seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.
Who does not know the evils of war cannot appreciate its benefits.
He will win whose army is animated by the spirit throughout all its ranks.
Strategy without tactics is the slowest route to victory. Tactics without strategy is the noise before defeat.
Never venture, never win.
Order or disorder depends on organization; courage or cowardice on circumstances; strength or weakness on dispositions.
Know yourself and you will win all battles.
When you are ignorant of the enemy, but know yourself, your chances of winning or losing are equal.  
Wheels of justice grind slow but grind fine.
In war, then, let your great object be victory, not lengthy campaigns.
Supreme excellence consists of breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.
Know the enemy and know yourself, in a hundred battles you will never be in peril. 
Making no mistakes is what establishes the certainty of victory, for it means conquering an enemy that is already defeated.
Swift as the wind, Quiet as the forest, Conquer like the fire, Steady as the mountain.
So long as victory can be attained,stupid haste is preferable to clever dilatoriness.
Appraise war in terms of the fundamental factors. The first of these factors is moral influence.
Mystify, mislead, and surprise the enemy.
Ponder and deliberate before you make a move.
Build your opponent a golden bridge to retreat across.
Do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat.
Nothing is more difficult than the art of maneuvering for advantageous positions.
The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.
If you wait by the river long enough, the bodies of your enemies will float by.
If there is disturbance in the camp, the general's authority is weak.
One who sets the entire army in motion to chase an advantage will not attain it.
Pretend inferiority and encourage his arrogance.
The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim.
Ultimate excellence lies not in winning every battle, but in defeating the enemy without ever fighting.
So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong, and strike at what is weak.
The Art of War is self-explanatory.
The enlightened ruler is heedful, and the good general full of caution.
Too frequent rewards indicate that the general is at the end of his resources; too frequent punishments that he is in acute distress.
The difficulty of tactical maneuvering consists in turning the devious into the direct, and misfortune into gain.
If you wait patiently by the river, the body of your enemy will float by.
According to my assessment, even if you have many more troops than others, how can that help you to victory?
If quick, I survive. If not quick, I am lost. This is death.
When the enemy is relaxed, make them toil. When full, starve them. When settled, make them move.
One may know how to conquer without being able to do it.
I presume you know the difference between front and back, right hand and left hand?
Where the army is, prices are high; when prices rise the wealth of the people is exhausted.
Treat your men as you would your own beloved sons.  And they will follow you into the deepest valley.
Energy may be likened to the bending of a crossbow; decision, to the releasing of a trigger.
Secret operations are essential in war; upon them the army relies to make its every move.
It is best to keep one's own state intact; to crush the enemy's state is only second best.
The art of war is of vital importance to the State.
Practice dissimulation, and you will succeed.
When you surround an army, leave an outlet free. Do not press a desperate foe too hard.
The one who figures on victory at headquarters before even doing battle is the one who has the most strategic factors on his side.
He who knows when he can fight and when he cannot, will be victorious.
Management of many is the same as management of few. It is a matter of organization.
Plan for what it is difficult while it is easy, do what is great while it is small.
You can ensure the safety of your defense if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked.
On open ground, do not try to block the enemy's way.  On the ground of intersecting highways, join hands with your allies.
One mark of a great soldier is that he fight on his own terms or fights not at all.
A wise general makes a point of foraging of the enemy.
The clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, but does not allow the enemy's will to be imposed on him.
Disorder came from order, fear came from courage, weakness came from strength.
Success in warfare is gained by carefully accommodating ourselves to the enemy's purpose.
When the officers are too strong and the common soldiers too weak, the result is COLLAPSE.
Hold out baits to entice the enemy. Feign disorder, and crush him.
To a surrounded enemy, you must leave a way of escape.
Prohibit the taking of omens, and do away with superstitious doubts. Then, until death itself comes, no calamity need be feared.
Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation may be succeeded by content.
When we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away.
If you are strong, appear weak. But if you are weak, appear strong.
I have heard that the ancients used bows and arrows to their advantage.
There has never been a protracted war from which a country has benefited.
Supreme importance in war is to attack the enemy's strategy.
What is essential in war is victory, not prolonged operations.
He who is prudent and lies in wait for an enemy who is not, will be victorious.
Invincibility lies in the defense; the possibility of victory in the attack.
Opportunities multiply as they are seized.
What the ancients called a clever fighter is one who not only wins, but excels in winning with ease.
Victorious warriors win first and then go to war, while defeated warriors go to war first and then seek to win.
If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he will everywhere be weak.
The greatest victory is that which requires no battle.
The worst calamities that befall an army arise from hesitation.
The principle on which to manage an army is to set up one standard of courage which all must reach.
Keep your friends close, and your enemies closer.
Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive,knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive.
Danger has a bracing effect.
Convince your enemy that he will gain very little by attacking you; this will diminish his enthusiasm.
